wired/wireless serial*communications .serial uart: from/to computer application (processing).wired serial between arduinos3.serial optical link (ir remote).arduino as an ir remote controller5.use the ir remote to control the arduino (*) modem converts bluetooth to serial and backhardware hacking [sm3610 semb /] alvaro cassinelli (tue) serial-usb: we have been using the native serial port (also called serial-uart) on the arduino (rx/tx on pins and ). these pins are also connected (inside the board) to serial-to-usbbridge/modem so you can connect the arduino directly to computer. modem/bridge: transforms from one protocol/hardware to anothermodems and the cloud: many protocol bridges / modulators can be added to the arduino board (shields) so it can talk tcp/ip over wifior ethernet, bluetooth, gsm, lora, etc. serial? uart-to-usb modem chip ) arduino computer arduino does not talk usb, only basic serial protocol called uart,using two lines (rx and tx). the arduino has bridge chip that translates the uart protocol into usb protocol. the computer does the opposite and sees serial port (serial monitor, processing). depending on the model of this chip, you may need to install sometimes different usb drivers note: you may see other arduino boards that dont integrate serial-to-usbbridge, so you need to use an additional module to talk to the computer via usb. serial sends data byte by byte... serial.print(...):tranformstext or numbers into ascii code (bytes):serial.write(...):sends the specified byte (whatever value) note: if you send non-ascii code using serial.write(...), for instance serial.write(), you may see garbage in the serial monitor (not an ascii code!).but you can read it on processing for instance, with serial.read() (later) talking midi (another serial protocol midiis serial-based protocol operating at bit/sec. it is very easy to send midi data to the computer: you just have to send the appropriate midi messages (either by hand or using midi library). sending by hand:using the arduino midi library midi message is divided command bytesanddata bytes: commandsinclude things such as note on, note off, pitch bend, and so forth. data bytes include things like the pitch of the note to play, the velocity, or loudness of the note, amount of pitch bend and so forth. if you have midi instrument that uses usb, you dont need to do that (be sure to set the baud rate to baud). also, if you want to use virtual instrument on your computer (ableton, garageband, etc), you can run an app likehairless midi. midi adapter or serial-usb wiring arduino to the midi connector is easy. you just need one (or two) 220ohms. note: arduino can also receive midi data (there are midi shields for it, so you can use the arduino as synthesizer). ohm the uart serial is also used to communicate with other hardware, from sensors/actuators to modems (bluetooth, wifi). ...but there are other serial protocols that are handier to connect many devices on the same bus, for instance i2c or spi.uart, spi, and i2c arduino uses the serial protocol uart (universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter), sending and receiving data on two pins (rx, tx). (arduino also have an uart-to-usb modem chip) as usual, you will find these in many cases, and arduino has of course libraries to handle the details (protocol) of the communication (wire., spi.)other serial protocols: computer to arduino (serial)we used the serial monitor to read data sent from the arduino to the computer, but an arduino can also read what you write on the serial monitor (write and hit return). receiving one byte:receiving full number (int, float) how to send to arduino more than byte?example: you type . on the serial monitor...arduino will receive bytes (ascii codes)this must be parsed (interpreted as an int or float, etc). arduino just waits settimeoutmsbefore converting... note: the same is true the other way around. if you send from the arduino serial.println(.), how you get the float value (not just string) on the computer? you have to parse too. processing does it by reading all the numbers and converting things using the casting operator float (see on the right). note that you need to use println (processing needs to know when to stop reading bytes!) serialevent() is called whenever new data comes in the hardware serial rx. this routine is run between each time loop() runs, so using delay inside loop can delay response. multiple bytes of data may be available.note: this is not based on time interrupts, so in fact its practically equivalent to polling, but simplifies your code. callback-based serial data capture: interfacing with computer programreading values from the arduino on the monitor (or plotting graphs) is interesting mainly for tests and debugging.using the console to send values to the arduino is also interesting for testing your interactive code. but...what if we want to use the data sent by the arduino for something more interesting (such as using data from sensors to control computer game?)what if we want to send to the arduino data generated by the computer, and not by us? (including data from the cloud)we will demonstrate this using processing (java), but most computer languages have libraries to read serial port (python, ++ openframeworks, p5js, unity...). note about openframeworks ... amazing community of creative coders! review: processingprocessingis programming language (and ide) written mainly with artists in mind, to create images, animations, games, etc. it is based on java (not ideal for real time things, but incredibly simple and also great community and libraries (web, video, sound, etc.)it is open source and cross-platform (easy to make android apps for example)lot of libraries (for graphics, sound, game engines, etc, but also for interfacing with the internet, peripherals and hardware like an arduino).processing has core library to read/write data on serial port; the functions (and names) are practically the same than in the arduino language: arduino to processing remember: if you use input_pullup, the switch should be connected from the input pin to gnd. otherwise you need pull-down resistor (and connect to +5v) processing to arduino super easy ideas to try: write processing code for bouncing ballput one potentiometer on the arduino board, and move puck ... or the classic pong game with two players (two potentiometers. or other sensors! we will see accelerometers, but you can be creative (sound sensor, light, ultrasound rangefinder...) pong table electromechanical game (made in sinergia tech, uruguay, when was cto) . wired serial between arduinos there has to be common ground between the two arduinos (otherwise the pin voltages wont be defined properly). note that tx goes to rx and rx goes to tx.note that when the connection is made, pins and are not accessible for the uart (so you cannot upload programs). note: software serial sometimes you need to use the usb-serial of one or two arduinos; this means you cannot use pins and (rx/tx). these are reserved by the hardware-based serial interface (the one available through the usb)in this case, you can use the library softwareserial. and use any other digital pin. . infrared communicationarduino to arduinoremote control to arduinoarduino as ir remote (ex: tv) cheap, energy efficient, can be very long range (laser), and ideal to broadcast data to many devices in parallel. it is used in many home appliances. non-modulated optical linkwe need to define baud rate (its an asynchronous protocol, like serial). is detected when the signal goes over certain threshold, otherwise.you can transfer data (commands, sensor data) by designing your own protocol -like morse code for letters for instance.having emitters and sensors in both sides would enable to also do some elementary error correction, or even have synchronous protocol... simple infrared serial: simple link (rx/tx) can be done by using an ir led and photoresistor (or phototransistor or photodiode). note: use software serialpins for trying. however, ambient light interfere with the data link (there is lot of infrared!), and this will only work at very short distances (calculators...) note on ir ledsand resistors to use: ir ledscan be transparent or not (black, bluish...).it may be confusing (since the ir photodiodes can also be transparent or dark!) ir ledsphototransistor an efficient solution is to modulate the led, and detect only signals that have that specific frequency (called the carrier frequency) using an ir receiver.an ir receiver is photodiode with additional electronics that detects ir light, and detects burst at the carrier frequency in the resulting signal.in this situation, is short pulse at 38khz and anything else is .demodulating sensor! much better! typical demodulating ir receiverthe tsop38238demodulating sensor is digital sensor that reads low when it senses carrier at 38khz (for duration larger than about 600us). otherwise it stay high. ... not more complicated: use phototransistor (an ldr would be too slow)problem: ambient illuminationhowever, this is very useful to detect proximity, or black/white strips, etc. with an ir demodulating receiver note for advanced hackers: ...how to generate 38khz burst manually?period of the carrier is: / = . sec (. microseconds) burst of minimum length of 600us of 38khz carrier will be decoded as by the infrared sensor much better: use interrupt timers. perfect example of something microcontrollers can do better compared with pc (or raspberry pi with an operating system) to try:-use serial port to connect the sensor and the ir led. -input text on the pc serial monitor, and send it to another student arduino (the text should appear in her/his serial monitor)-... there will be probably lot of errors ;) nec protocolirda (ir-data) protocol and library!problem: an asynchronusprotocol (like serial) needs initial synchronization. if it is not perfect, at one moment the data will be corrupted. how to avoid this without much complication? by having different lengths coding for zeros and ones for instance.there are many different standards (nec, panasonic, sony...) fortunately, there are good encoder/decoder libraries for arduino, for instance ken shirriffsirremote. ken shirriffsirremote note: if you keep holding any button down, you dont receive its code again and again, but the code ffffff (the repeat command). decoded buttons the ir remote ken shirriffsirremoteirrecvdem.ino(receive ir codes with irrecv) irsenddemo.ino(send ir codes with irsend) to try:) without library: read the digital output of the tsop38238 and print the train of zeros and ones on the console or the serial plotter when using the remote (*). ) use irremotelibrary and print the actual meaning of these zeros and ones (the decoded sequence). for instance, check the code for play. (*) you can use an external interrupt, but beware you cannot use serial.printinside it! arduino as an ir remotethe library irremotecan be used to decode ir trains, but also to encodedata into train of pulses (to be read by another arduino or... your tv for instance). you need to hook-up an ir led to the digital pin in the arduino. typically, the forward voltage of the ir led you have is about .5v, and they can handle about 50ma, but its better to put resistor (*) (*) the max that the digital pins can give you is 40ma, so you could connect the led directly to the pins (but its not good practice, better limit the current as appropriate depending on the led) -850nm, or -950nm [task ]use the irremotelibrary to send commands to tv (if you have one around). you should check first the protocol (nec, sony...). for that you can use one library example (irrecvdump).it will dump details of ir codes and protocol of your remote. once this is done, you can use the library to send commands to the tv (be creative on how/when to generate them: for instance if someone switch off the light, the tv can go on using an ldr) (*) you can use an external interrupt, but beware you cannot use serial.printinside it! thetv--gone universal remote control allows you to turn virtually any tv on or off. we prefer off. sending commands to the arduinoby now it should be easy to understand how this is done. the tv remote just send irda encoded commands, that you can decode. you can move motors, control lights, make sound, etc. ... why not using the remote to send midi messages to computer virtual instrument? bluetooth modem firstsimple rf communication (rc cars) thesimplestrf communicationmodule are thoseusedin radio controlledtoycars (, mhz)mostare onlyoneway (itsnota transceiver). thereisno id (onlyonecan existin thearea)notveryrobustto electromagneticinterference, no error correctionbyhardware. bandwidth: max2400 or4800 bpsup to about150 metrosverycheap, and usefulforsimple projects. radioheadperformserror correctionbysoftware ifyouwantto sendmore thansimple messages). bluetooth classic (point to point) example: theclassic bluesmirf: bluetooth classicmodem can be usedas wirelesscable replacement:... thearduinoseesa serial port, as wellas thecomputer. thisisa goodsolutionfora simple wirelessproject(no modificationfrombothsidescomputercodeand arduino). however, itisa littletrickyifyouwantto control manythingswirelessly(itseasyto set point-to-pointcommunication, liketheusb-serial)theirbandwithrangeisabout2400 to baud. note: hc- or spp- (the same, way cheaper) at commands : setting the bluetooth parameters the bluetooth modem has to modes of operation: data transfer, and command mode. we enter command mode by either connecting the key to vcc or keeping the button pressed while powering on. the status led will stay on for second and stay off for another second if in at command mode.the code in the right is serial pass through that enables to send commands to the bluetooth serial from the arduino ide monitor. we may need to configure the name of the bluetooth because they will be many in the class. we may need to configure the name of the bluetooth because they will be many in the class. its modem : bluetooth to serial you dont even need library!you create your own protocol of communication. grove ble v1(bluetooth modem hands-on! controlling things with your smartphone plotting sensors on your smartphone bluetooth . includes "bluetooth classic" and bluetooth low energy. ble is optimized forlow power use at low data rates,operating from simple lithium coin cell batteries (hence all sort of wearables). ble uses different way to send/receive data, better adapted to multiple devices ( sort of server-client protocol). you can add ble modem to the arduino (using ble and tranlatingthe data as serial). but as we will see soon, there are many arduino compatible development boards containing microcontroller that has ble and wifiand even other rf hardware. bluetooth low energy (ble) ble beacons are small bluetooth-enabled sensors that allow you to offer location based service or content (used in shops for instance to show points of interest). beacon can be installed on indoor or outdoor stationary and movable objects, turning them into iot capable devices, discoverable up to 80m. they can also be used as indoor positioning systemsone way transmitter (privacy...)bluetooth low energy beacons w1 / l1introduction: hacking & physical computing w2 / l1. basic components & simple circuits l1.] w3 / l2 arduino coding, digital pins, serial monitor w4 / l3analog sensors and actuators w5 / l4 timing & interrupts / audio sampling & synthesis w6 / l5 catching fast events with hardware interrupts / distance sensor mid-term assig. [knock secret] w7 / l6 power electronics: transistor& solenoids, motors, servos, steppers w8 / l6power electronics: transistor& solenoids, motors, servos, steppers w9 / l7 wireless serial: infrared & bluetooth (smartphone/computer) w10 / l8 imu (accelerometer, magnetometer & gyroscope) / control loop assignment deadline (w10) w11 / l9 project proposal presentation & discussion proposal presentation (w11) w12 / l10 arduino and the cloud: bluetooth, wifi, html server, iot proposal docs (w12)biosensing and real time signal processing w13. help project / ssp / fablab / special consultations? w13 project presentation & demodemo & presentation (w13) nov deadline project documentation (video, pdf, online page)alvaro cassinellicourse plan [revised] sm3610 sema / 3weeks
copyright reserved: all lecture notes and related materials are solely used for this course. please do not upload the materials to any authorized websites or distribute to other parties without my permission. tea room visit tutorial session week rules of entering the tea room introduction of yukoan .establishment and meaning of the name .the design ( mizuya/kitchen, roji/garden, main tea room) .alcove and the tatami mats .settings of utensils (their places) . ryurei ( gengenzai grand master) real setting divided into an outer and inner garden, with machiai (waiting arbour hut). .tsukubai (water basin) .lantern, .tobi ishi (stepping stones) .wicket gate the tea room
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : introductiondr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk what is data visualization? 01principles of visual perception 02course outline 01what is data visualization? part one what is data visualization?how popular is your birthday? how common is your birthday? this visualization might surprise you | the daily viz what is data visualization?how popular is your birthday?holidays: people seem to have time for baby making during their time off.choice: people choose not to have their children during holidays. what is data visualization?at your first glance, do you think the petrol prices are increasing or decreasing? twitter abuzz over bjps graph on fuel prices, congress fixes it | india news,theindian express what is data visualization? fixed infographic: what is data visualization? data visualization is the process of taking raw data, transforming it into graphs, charts, images and even videos that explain the numbers and allow us to gain insights from it.graphic representation of data what is data visualization?visualization:it can be strictly traditional charts and graphs. it can be anything that displays data from more liberal view.visualization can be preceded by three words, creating three terms with somewhat different meanings: data visualizationinformation visualizationscientific visualization principles of visual perception it can be anything that displays data from more liberal view. what is data visualization?data visualization covers all types of representation that support the exploration, examination, and communication of data.best for allowing the audience to draw their own conclusions, and offer objectivity what is data visualization?information visualization refers to the use of computer-supported, interactive, visual representations of abstract data to amplify cognition.stuart et al., 1999best for telling premeditated story and offer subjectivitybest for guidingthe audience to conclusions and point out relationships what is data visualization?scientific visualization is defined as visual representation of scientific data that are usually physical in nature, rather than abstract. for example, an mri (magnetic resonance imaging) scan produces scientific visualization. what is data visualization?data:data is collection of facts and observations. what is data visualization?data:data is collection of facts and observations. what is data visualization?why visualize?we live in data-richworld. we stand on the shore of vast sea of available data, but with hardly clue what to do.the problem is that most of us dont know how to dive into this ocean of information.despite great technical progress in data acquisition and huge data warehouses, intelligence resides in human beings, and that information only becomes valuable when it is understood. we visualize to help ourselves and others thinkabout and understand information. what is data visualization?why visualize? what is data visualization?why visualize?visualization works best when displaying information as familiar, easy to recognize patternsshould allow us to see what is meaningfulshould allow us to make sense of what we are seeingshould help us make comparisonsand examine relationships what is data visualization?what can you get from this graphic? filmographics| steven spielberg (visualisingdata.com) what is data visualization?value of visualizing data: anscombes quartet what is data visualization?value of visualizing data: anscombes quartetit is much easier to see the relationship between the two variables, the curvature in the pattern in the top-right graph, and the outliers in the bottom two graphs. what is data visualization?value of visualizing data: what is data visualization?value of visualizing data: what is data visualization?different types of visualization: quantitative vs qualitativeelectric car sales: what is data visualization?different types of visualization: quantitative vs qualitativehow laws are made in the us: what is data visualization?different types of visualization:quantitative vs qualitative how laws are made in the us:which one do you prefer? what is data visualization?different types of visualization: informative vs persuasive lunge feeding | ny times | 13pt what is data visualization?different types of visualization: informative vs persuasive what is data visualization?different types of visualization: what is data visualization?different types of visualization: 02principles of visual perception part two principles of visual perceptionbefore starting creating graphs, we need to cover some basic theory of how the brain perceives visual stimuli. this will guide us as we decide what chart type is most appropriate to visualize the data.visual perception is the ability to interpret the surrounding environment by processing information that is contained in visible light.around % of the bodys sense receptors reside in out eyes1/ of brain energyvision is not only the fastest and most nuanced sensory portal to the world, it is also the most intimately connected with cognition.seeing and thinking collaborate closely to make sense of the world. principles of visual perceptionhow visual perception works:our eyes sense light that enters an object after reflecting off its surfaces in the world.what we perceive as an object is built in our brains as composite of several visual properties, which are the building blocks of vision.even though we perceive this composite of properties as whole object, we can still distinguishthe properties that compose it.these individual properties, which vision is specifically tuned to sense, include two-dimensional (-) location, length, width, area, shape, color, and orientation, to name few. principles of visual perceptionthe message says im fine.and the selfies goes like: principles of visual perceptionhow visual perception works:if we can use these basic and easily perceived attributesto represent data visually, we can direct much of the work that is required to view and make sense of data to simple and efficient perceptual processes in the brain.rather than reading individual values one at time, which is how we perceive tables of text, we can, thanks to graph, see and potentially understand many values at once. this is because visual displays combine values into patterns that we can perceive as wholes, such as the patterns formed by lines in line graph. principles of visual perceptionwhat can we learn from this table? principles of visual perceptionwhat can we learn from this table?the statistical table works well if we need precise values or an easy means to look up individual values.yet, sense-making involves operations that go beyond looking up specific values in table like the statistical table.most data analysis involves searching for and making sense of relationshipsamong values and making comparisons that involve more than just two values at time. principles of visual perceptionwhat can we learn from this graph? principles of visual perceptionwhat can we learn from this graph?facts that the graph makes visible:domestic sales were much higher than international sales throughout the year.domestic sales trended upward during the course of the year as whole while international sales remained relatively flat.the month of august was an exception to otherwise relatively consistent sales in the international market.domestic sales exhibited monthly pattern of up, up, up down, which repeated itself quarterly, with the highest sales in the last month and the lowest sales in the first month of each quarter. principles of visual perceptionwhen we consider how to visualize our data, how accurately the reader can perceive the data values? spectrum of graphs arrayed by how easily readers can estimate their value. principles of visual perceptionit is easier to compare the data in line charts, bar charts, and area charts that have the same axis or baseline.graphs on which the data are positioned on unaligned axes are slightly harder to accurately discern the values.encodings based on angle, area, volume, and color are more difficult for us to accurately perceive the exact data values. principles of visual perceptionnevertheless, perceptual accuracy is not always the goal. and sometimes it is not goal at all.spurring readers to engage with graph is sometimes just as important. and sometimes it is more important.nonstandard graphs (like those use circles or curves) can attract attention to the visualization.also, they can show underlying patterns and trends in better ways than standard graphs. principles of visual perception what can you learn from this graph? principles of visual perception the graph shows:fifty most violent cities in the world in .the vertical axis measures the population of each city.the horizontal axis captures the homicide rate per , people.the number of lines in each icon represents the number of homicides, and additional colors, shapes, and markers capture metrics like country of origin, region, and change since . principles of visual perceptiondata visualization is mix of science and art.the science sideuse visualizations that allow readers to more accurately perceive the absolute values of data and make comparisons.the art sidecreate visuals that engage and excite the reader, even if they do not permit the most accurate comparisons.we should not operate from the assumption that readers will pay attention to everything in our visual. people see bar charts and line charts all the time, and those charts are often boring. principles of visual perceptiondata visualization is mix of science and art.for scholarly writing, accuracy is paramount. for headline-style or standalone graphics, blog posts, shorter briefs or reports, or graphs for social media, creating something different may draw people in and hold their attention just long enough to convey your argument, data, or content. principles of visual perception what does this graphic show? principles of visual perception what does this graphic show?artist and journalist jaime serra palou plotted his coffee consumption every day for year by using stains from his coffee cup.you can immediately see his hard times, when extra caffeine is needed. line chart may convey the same data, but would you pause to spend an extra moment reading it? principles of visual perceptiondata visualization is mix of science and art.if you decide to use something different, creative, nonstandard:you need to explain how to read the graph.you may add more familiar graph next to your attention-grabbing graphic. principles of visual perception oecd better life index principles of visual perception oecd better life indexan interactive visualization that enables users to explore the different metrics and definitions of what it means to have better life.it allows you to see how countries perform according to the importance you give to each of topics that make for better life.each flower represents one country.each petal represents one of the topics.the length of petal represents the countrys score in topic, while its width represents the importance youve assigned to that topic. gestalt principles are principles/laws of human perception that describe how humans group similar elements, recognize patterns and simplify complex images when we perceive objects.how we tend to organize visual elements into groupsprinciples of visual perception gestalt principles of visual perception principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptiongestalt theory was developed in the early part of the twentieth century by german psychologists.we want to use these perceptual rules to more effectively communicate our data. to make our visualization aesthetically pleasing and easy to understandthe following six principles from gestalt theory are especially useful for creating graphs and visuals that tap into our readers visual processing network. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptionproximitywe perceive objects that are close to one another as belong to group. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptionproximitywe perceive objects that are close to one another as belong to group.in the example, we see groups of hearts, not separate hearts. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptionsimilarity our brains group objects that share the same color, shape, or direction.adding color to the above scatterplot reinforces the two groups. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptionenclosurebounded objects are perceived as group.in addition to using color, we can enclose the two groups with circles or other shapes. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptionclosureour brains tend to ignore gaps and complete structures with open areas.we automatically fill in gaps between elements to perceive complete image. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptionclosureyou can apply closure in all sorts of imaginative ways to win users admiration and trust when they recognize pleasing wholes in cleverly placed elements, be they lines, dots, or shapes. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptioncontinuityobjects that are aligned together or continue one another are perceived as group. in the example, you dont need the horizontal axis line in this bar chart, because the bars are aligned along consistent path between the labels and the bottoms of the bars. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptioncontinuityhowmanylines? principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptioncontinuityobjects that are aligned together or continue one another are perceived as group. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptioncontinuityobjects that are aligned together or continue one another are perceived as group. principles of visual perceptiongestalt principles of visual perceptionconnectionwe perceive connected objects as members of the same group.in the example: at first, we perceive it as single series, mass of blue dots.adding color makes it clear there are two different series.connecting the dots makes it clear how the two initially track each other but then diverge. principles of visual perceptionpre-attentive processingit is subset of gestalt theory.because our eyes can detect limited set of visual characteristics, we combinevarious features of an object and unconsciously perceive them as single image. all available information is pre-attentively processed. then, the brain filters and processes what is important. information that has the highest salience is selected for further analysis by conscious (attentive) processing.pre-attentive attributes draw our attention to specific part of an image or graph. principles of visual perceptionpre-attentive processingfor example, try to find the four largest numbers in this table: principles of visual perceptionpre-attentive processinghard to find? then try these two: principles of visual perceptionpre-attentive processingit is easier to find the numbers in the following two tables than the first one because the numbers are encoded using pre-attentive attributes: color and weight.pre-attentive attributes are effects that seem to pop out from their surroundings. where your eyes are drawn first when looking at visualyou can use pre-attentive attributes to draw your audiences attention to aspects of your graphs, guiding their focus. principles of visual perceptionpre-attentive processingexamples of pre-attentive attributes that we can use in our visualizations to direct our readers attention. principles of visual perceptionexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributeswhat can you get from this table? principles of visual perceptionexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributeswe now make use of color to convert the cross-tab to visualization and make the time to insight quicker. principles of visual perceptionexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributesintensity principles of visual perceptionexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributesenclosure principles of visual perceptionexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributesshapes principles of visual perceptionexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributeswidth: by utilizing stacked bar chart and stacked area chart, one can easier see the change over time for the different regions. principles of visual perceptionabadexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributeswhereisthepanda? principles of visual perceptionabadexamples of the use of pre-attentive attributeswhereisthesheep? 03course outline part three course outlinecourse intended learning outcomesidentify key components and concepts about cognitive science and data visualizationdesign and use visual representations (graph theory, physics, network, etc.) effectivelyprocess and analyze data and information via graphical means with design principlesproduce work that visualizes informationcreate digital art using experimental methods of data and spatial informationassociate, combine and integrate knowledge from different disciplines (.. mathematics, sciences, literature etc.) into course assignments building your visualizationdesign workflowinteractivity, annotation, colors, compositionlecturespractices on computeruse of tableau; excel; gephi, etc.. exercisecourse outline course outlinelectureexerciseguidelinesoperationsweek1introductiontovisualization.courseoutline.introducingtableauweek2fiveguidelinesforvisualization.buildingyourvisualizationi.tableau:comparingcategoriestableau(20mins)week3designworkflowi.buildingyourvisualizationii.tableau:comparingcategoriestableau(1hour)week4designworkflowii.buildingyourvisualizationiii.tableau:time;distributiontableau(20mins)in-classexam(30mins)week5designworkflowiii.buildingyourvisualizationiv.tableau:datacalculationexcel:datacalculationtableau&excel(20mins)week6buildingyourvisualizationv.tableau:geospatial;part-to-wholetableau(30mins)week7featuresofinteractivity&annotation.introducingthetermprojecttableau:annotationin-classexam(30mins)projectdesigning(30mins)week8applicationofcolors.dashboard.tableau:dashboard.projectdesigning(30mins)week9featuresofcomposition.reviewtips.projectdesigning(30mins)week10buildingyourvisualization--relationalstatisticalanalysisitableau:relationalspssin-classexam(30mins)projectdesigning(30mins)week11buildingyourvisualization--relationalstatisticalanalysisiitableau:relationalspss:regressionsprojectdesigning(30mins)week12visualizationforqualitativedata.qualitativeanalysis:contentanalysis.presentationweek13qualitativeanalysisusingnvivo.conclusionnvivopresentation course outlineparticipation/discussion10%assignments (individual)*%=%in-class exercise (individual)*%=%term project (group)%total100%course assessments course outlinesoftwaretableau public : free: timesearcher2: course outlinetextbookskirk, . . data visualisation: handbook for data driven design, london, sage publicationsfew. . . now you see it: simple visualization techniques for quantitative analysis, oakland, ca. milligan, . . learning tableau . packtpublishing, birmingham, uk.krum, . . cool infographics: effective communication with data visualization and design, wiley. wong, . .. guide to information graphics, the wall street journalcairo, . . the functional art: an introduction to information graphics and visualization. new riders, ca.lima, . . the book of trees: visualizing branches of knowledgeforeman, . . data smart: using data science to transform information into insight, wiley course outlinecreate your own visualizationyour term project needs to be presented in class.make your group by week 6a group consists of - studentsfinal presentationin week &13each presentation should last no longer than mins.deadline of submission: two week after presentation course outlinecreate your own visualizationagenda of your presentation:what is your topic? (what story will you tell)why is this topic important?what data sets will you use? how will you get the data?what methods (visualization tools and techniques) will you use?what are the main findings from the analysis? evaluation criteriainformativeness; aesthetics; interestingness; creativity; rigor course outlinedata sourcesgoogle public data explore kong public data census and statistics department (hong kong) kong housing authorities data bank course outlineplagiarismplagiarism is serious offense at cityuwhich is regarded as academic dishonesty. &
machine learning for artistsweek one: introduction to machine learning machine learning is family of computational methodsdesigned to extract,from dataset, knowledgeabout the populationfrom which the data has been sampled. the knowledge to be extracted has value for the human beings who use those methods in cultural and social contexts. thevalue of this knowledge dependsonitsuseforsolvingcertain kinds of problems. machine learning tackles problems that can be expressed in terms of input-output relations. example: image restoration in depth estimation, the inputs are again imagesand the outputs are also images where the brightness level of each pixel represents the relative depth of the object depicted in the region to which the pixel belongs. each pixel can have any value between (black, very far) and (white, very close). source: example:frameinterpolation source: regression problems all ofthe previous problems can be described generally as regression problems. in regression problem, the possible output values are theoretically continuous. classification problem in aclassification problem, the outputs are discrete rather than continuous. the outputs are labels that represent concepts, for instance dog or cat. the aim is to associate every input (for instance an image) with label that accurately describes its content. binaryclassification example: indoor vs. outdoor source: in simple image classification problem, the function receives images (arrays of numbers representing pixels) as inputs and outputs labels (represented, for instance, by numerals). clustering clusteringaims to partition the data (for ex., images) into groups or clusters, so that similar instances are in the same clusters and different instances are in different clusters. everyoutput is label that represents the cluster to which the input belongs. image source: woutervan gansbeke,simon vandenhende,stamatiosgeorgoulis,marc proesmans,luc van gool, scan: learning to classify images without labels the goal of machine learning is for the learner (software)to produce automatically the appropriate output to any given input (of the right kind). we can think of an input as stimulus and the output produced by the learner as responseto that stimulus. to learn is to be in some sense conditioned to produce the appropriate response to any given stimulus of the right kind. function we can describe what is learnt in machine learning, the input-output relation, as (mathematical) function. function associates with every element of one set (the domain of the function) unique element of another set (the codomain) of the function. we can think of elements of (the potentialstimuli) as potential inputs of the function and elements of (thepotential responses) as potential outputs of the function. parameters of family of functionsthe parameters of family of functions (expressed in some formal notation) are the values that identify specific function within that family. for instance, the general form of linear function is mx + chere, mand care the parameters of linear function. we identify one specific linear function by assigning values to those parameters. searchin family of functionswe can think of machine learning as search for function that captures appropriate input-output relations in the data reasonably well for the task at hand. but there are too many functions for this search to be practical without some prior restriction. we normally limit ourselves to searching within family of functions. for instance, linear functions. the family can be chosen for various reasons. for instance, we have prior knowledge that functions in this family are appropriate for the sample. or perhaps functions in the family are easy to work with computationally. fitness criterion to select model for given dataset, we need measure of the fitness of the model for the data. fitness criterion fitness criterion is function that outputs score quantifying the extent to which the available data speaks for candidate model. we also call this the error, loss, or costof the function for the given data. note:thelossassociated with function is itself function. modela (machine learning)modelis () function, together with ()an interpretation of its inputs and outputs and () fitness criterion (to assess the accuracy or fitness of the functions outputs for any given inputs with respect to set of data).in machine learning, the aim is automatically to identify model, within given family, which fits the available data reasonably well. loss (error, cost) of hypothesisa hypothesisis model (function) that we somehow compare or evaluate against the available data using fitness criterion (loss, error, cost). we can think of the error of hypothesis as measure of the degree to which the available data disconfirms (speaks against) the model. low error means that the data confers high degree of confirmation on the hypothesis. hypothesis in machine learning does not usually produce true outputs for all cases. we seldom expect the error to be zero. our aim is not for model that is true but one that is true enough.better: we want model with reasonably high degree of confirmation. machine learning algorithm is programmed to search automatically within family of modelsforonethatistrue enough giventhedata available. trialanderrora typical learning procedure: .make an initial guess, .., select values of the parameters (given chosen family of functions) at random..refine this guess iteratively. in every iteration:the learner computes the error of the current hypothesis and uses this error to modify the parameters of the hypothesis in way that tends on average to improve its performance, as measured by the error function. trialanderrorwe can think of this learning process as one of trial and error. in every step, trial is performed. the error is then fed back to the learner, who uses it to modify the way that she responds to other stimuli in successive occasions. learning occurs if the learner produces performances that in some sense tend over time to improve, .., to incur lower error on average. supervised vs. unsupervised learninglearning can be classified into at least two types, based on the kinds of data used to compute the error during training: supervised the learning datacomprisescorrectinput-output pairs. the learner computes the error by comparing the model outputs with the provided outputs for the same inputs. unsupervisedthelearning data only comprises inputs.the learner must use some other method to compute the error of model. generalization ability machine learning involves two stages: .learning: the search for function given training dataset. .inference: the application of the function learnt to the same data used in training or, perhaps more frequently, to new data not seen during training. in many instances, we are interested in the generalization abilityof the model:its ability to produce good enough outputs in for inputs in to which the learner was not exposed during trainingit can happen that model becomes very good at predicting outputs from the dataset that it is exposed to during training, but it performs poorly on previously unseen data. training vs. testing data very common way of testing models generalization ability is to set aside relatively small proper subset of the available data (called the test data) before training. the datasetisthusdivided into two disjoint sets, the training and testing datasets. the learner does not see any of the test data during training. after training, we evaluate the models accuracy on the test data to measure its generalization ability. we want its performance on the test data to be reasonably good (low error). the process of acquiring generalizable knowledge from limited experience using trial and error is known as induction. we can think of machine learning as automated induction. the constitution of the datasetrecent work on the critical theory of machine learning (by emily denton and others) has called for studies about the constitution of datasets. this approach would address such questions as: how and why these datasets have been created, what and whose values influence the choices of data to collect, and the contextual and contingent conditions of their creation source: emily denton , alex hanna, razvan amironesei, andrew smart and hilary nicole, "on the genealogy of machine learning datasets: critical history of imagenet big data & society july-december: , the relationship between ml practitioners and the data infrastructure that supports their work can be characterized by trajectory of naturalization.as ml datasets become increasingly familiar and relied upon within daily routines, the contingencies of dataset creation are eroded in manner that ultimately renders the constitutive elements of their formation invisible.(denton et al, . ) for instance, the laborinvolved in the constitution of datasets is often under-documented in research papers and web sites. we can here invoke the science in action perspective. latour () science in action: how to follow scientists and engineers through society. cambridge, ma: harvard university press. source: central to imagenets epistemology is the assumed existence of an underlying and universal organization of the visual world into clearly demarcated concepts (denton et al, . ) image source: critical intervention on dataset creationartist anna ridlercreated dataset and presented it as an artwork. myriad (tulips), 2018by choosing to make the dataset an artwork it draws attention to the skill, labour and time that goes into constructing it, whilst also helping to expose the human element in machine learning, usually hidden by algorithmic processes. source of the quote and the images: there is work of preprocessing by means of which data instances are gathered into form that can sustain the search for good enough model (function). each stage of machine learning involves (human) work, lot of which is invisible. the work also involves decisions, often equally invisible. an important example involves the creation of datasets. denton and her co-writers use the perspective of infrastructure studiesto analyze datasets.infrastructure here is used to encompass the conceptual and material tools that enable different forms of knowledge, work, and scientific practice. (denton et al, . ) datasets are an important element in the infrastructure of machine learning. to speak of infrastructure is to highlight two aspects: . distinct from being understood simply as an inert object, data infrastructure creates the background conditionsthe environmentupon which ml research and development operates. . this environment has been builtideated and laboredupon by individuals located within particular socially, historically, geographically, and institutionally situated contexts. (denton et al, . ) for more on infrastructure studies, see: brian larkin, the politics and poetics of infrastructure, annual review of anthropology, . :. the authors conclude: our analysis reveals the assumptions, norms, and values inherent in the modes of dataset construction as way to reflect on their limits and show how datasets have not only material form as informational infrastructurebut also temporal dimension as historically situated artifact (denton et al, . ). the same point can be applied to all aspects of machine learning (for instance the algorithms and concepts used). data pre-processing asanexample of invisible work in machine learningdata is never simply consumed raw (unprocessed) by machine learning algorithms. it is heavily processed. for instance: outlier identification and removalgrayscale conversionnormalization data cleaning scaling discretization (quantization) feature binarizationmissing value imputation the choice of family of models for searching, the constitution ofadatasetandthepreprocessing of data are examples of the infrastructureof machine learning. this infrastructure is connected withquestions of value. value involves social, cultural, historical factors. poetics of infrastructure we can use the term poetics of infrastructure, very loosely adapted from bruce larkin, to describe any artistic project that explores and highlights aspects of the machine learning infrastructure:exploring the historical (political, social, cultural) aspects of those technologies and the possibilities for visualization and expression in those infrastructures. to dothis,weneedtothinkofmachine learning infrastructure as an artistic medium. source: brian larkin, the politics and poetics of infrastructure, annual review of anthropology201342:,-.
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : building your visualization idr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk five guidelines for better visualization building your visualization-comparing categories 02start your visualization 01five guidelines for better visualization part one show the datareduce the clutterintegrate the graphics and textfive guidelines avoid the spaghetti chartstart with grayfive guidelines for better data visualizations five guidelines1. show the data: five guidelines1.show the data:you should highlight the values that are important to your argument. data from the .. decennial censusa dot for each of the countrys million residentsthere is nothing in the image except for the data.there are no state borders, roads, city, markers, or labels for lakes and rivers. five guidelines1. show the data:you should highlight the values that are important to your argument.this does not mean that all the data must be shown. five guidelines1. show the data:you should highlight the values that are important to your argument.this does not mean that all the data must be shown. nomorethan6pies would be better. five guidelines1. show the data:dont bore your audience to death with too many variables. five guidelines2. reduce the clutter:clutter refers to the information/data irrelevant with what you want to show.there are lot of different types of chart clutter we might want to avoid: heavy tick marks and gridlines, unnecessary dimensions that distort the data, unnecessary textured or filled gradients example: take look at the three-dimensional column chart of average schooling for the .. and germany for selected years, what are the problems? five guidelines2. reduce the clutter: five guidelines2. reduce the clutter: five guidelines2. reduce the clutter:if you see 3d chart that is 3d for no reason, then you should question the data, the chart, the maker, and everything based on the chart.nathan ya five guidelines2. reduce the clutter:dont confuse and distract your audience from the point you try to make.identify only what you need to convey and exclude everything else. five guidelinesas you create more visualizations and read more graphs, youll develop your own eye and aestheticand your own balance of art and science. five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:the text we include in and around our graphs is just as important as the graphs.adding right annotations and text to graph can be vitally important to your readers comprehension.three ways to integrate our graphs and our visuals: removing legends, creating active titles, and adding detail. five guidelineswhere are the texts? filmographics| steven spielberg (visualisingdata.com) five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:remove legends when possible and label data directlymany software tools defaults create data legend and place it around the chart. this forces more work upon your reader to connect each line or bar to its label. five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:remove legends when possible and label data directly five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:remove legends when possible and label data directlyremoving the legend is not always possible. bar chart with several categories or map with different colors requires legend, because directly labeling the chart will add too much clutter to the visual.if you decide to use the legend, remember to keep the order of the legend consistent with the order of the data. five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:remove legends when possible and label data directly five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:write the title like newspaper headlineuse title that describes what the readers should learn (your point or argument), rather than simple description of the data.example: figure , labor force participation rate, men and women, - five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:write the title like newspaper headline five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:add explainersonce the chart is made and the title is settled, ask yourself, would this chart benefit from more text?sometimes data sets have peaks or valleys, outliers or variations that bear explanation. five guidelines3. integrate the graphics and text:add explainerscareful! dont let your explainers become clutter. five guidelines4. avoid the spaghetti chart:graphs containing too much information--line charts that look like spaghetti, maps with dozens of colors and icons, or bar after bar after bar littering chart.sometimes we face the challenge of including lots of data in single graph, but we dont need to try to pack everything into single graph. five guidelines4. avoid the spaghetti chart:small multiples approachwe can break single chart into smaller parts that use the same scale, axes, and scope but spread the data across multiple visuals.instead of putting all the data on one graph, create multiple, smaller versions with variationson the basic data.one smaller version indicating one category/dimension five guidelines4. avoid the spaghetti chart: five guidelines4. avoid the spaghetti chart: five guidelinessmall multiples approach can disaggregate your data. five guidelinessmall multiples approach makes comparison much easier. five guidelinessmall multiples approach five guidelines4. avoid the spaghetti chart:small multiples approach has three advantages:once the reader understands how to read one chart, they know how to read all the charts.you can display lots of information without confusing your reader.small multiples let readers make comparisonsacross multiple variables. five guidelines4. avoid the spaghetti chart:when using the small multiples approach, remember to:arrange the charts in logical order(like geography or alphabetical order)the graphs should share the samelayout, size, font, and color. it should look like one chart replicated multiple times.small multiples should be relatively easy to read. the purpose is to give them view of the overall pattern. five guidelines4. avoid the spaghetti chart: five guidelines5. start with gray:whenever you make graph, start with all-gray data elements. by doing so, you force yourself to be purposeful and strategic in your use of colors, labels, and other elements. five guidelines5. start with gray: 02building your visualization part two making abstract data visible example : making abstract data visible example :is something wrong with the following graph? making abstract data visible example :this is case where it doesnt make sense to encode the values as line.in the following graph, separate bars accurately encode and visually reinforce the independentnature of these departments and their expenses. making abstract data visible example :lines work well for connecting values through time but are inappropriate for connecting categorical items. listing departments along one of graphs axes is an example of using nominal scale. making abstract data visible example :what kind of chart are you going to use? making abstract data visible example :rank and compare the sales performance of the regions. which supports this task most effectively? making abstract data visible remember:we have various ways to visualize the same set of data.whenvisualizingourdata,the choices we make should be decided by our data type and purposes.visualizations can help us do lot of things, such as: comparing categoriestimedistributionbuilding your visualization geospatialpart-to-wholequalitativerelationship building your visualizationcomparing categories: we draw graphs to help our readers compare values across categories.the challenge lies in deciding what you want your readers to know. (your primary argument or story) building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartsthe length or height of the rectangular bars depict the value of your data.the rectangles can be arranged along the vertical axis ( bar chart) or vertically on the horizontal axis ( column chart).its easy to compare the values quickly and accurately. building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartscan you find the least and most populous countries (even without exact values)? building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartsits easier to find the highest and lowest values when the data is sorted. building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartsa few strategies for creating bar charts:. start the axis at zerostarting the axis at something other than zero may overemphasize the difference between the bars and skew our perception building your visualization1. start the axis at zero building your visualization2. dont break the barbreaking the bar means using squiggly line or shape to show that one or more of the bars have been cropped.it is used when there are extreme values, or outliers.yet this will distort the relative values between bars. building your visualization2. dont break the bar building your visualization2. dont break the barwhat if you want to show the detailed differences between smaller values?try the zoom-in and zoom-out approach building your visualization3. use tick marks and gridlines carefullyuse tick marks when you want to group the bars into major categories. building your visualization3. use tick marks and gridlines carefullyuse gridlines to help your readers see the specific values for each bar. building your visualization3. use tick marks and gridlines carefullyno gridline (including the vertical axis) is needed if you use the labels to show the exact values. building your visualization4. rotate long axis labelsif you have long horizontal axis labels, you may rotate the entire graph. building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartsvariations: to use other shapes to replace bars an example: the lollipop chartpros: more white space for labels and annotationcons: readers may be confused about the exact values building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartsvariations: to use other shapes to replace bars another example: building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartsvariations: radial bar charts (to place bars in circle) example: building your visualizationcomparing categories: bar chartsvariations: circular bar charts example:it makes the data estimation more difficult.it distorts the data. building your visualizationcomparing categories: paired bar we use paired bars when we want to make comparisons not only across, but also withincategories. example: by drawing paired bar chart, we can see both the leveland the difference. building your visualizationcomparing categories: paired bar another example:be careful if there are too many years. then line chart would be more appropriate. building your visualizationcomparing categories: paired bar another example:be careful if there are too many years. then line chart would be more appropriate. building your visualizationcomparing categories: stacked barit is used when you want to show the subcategories. building your visualizationcomparing categories: stacked barpros: easy to read and createcons: it may be difficult to compare the values of the segments within the chart.an alternative: building your visualizationcomparing categories: stacked barstacked bar chart is preferrable when we want to highlight the distribution. building your visualizationcomparing categories: diverging bara variation of the stacked bar chart; the stacks diverge from central baseline in opposite directions. often used for answers in surveyslikert scale. building your visualizationcomparing categories: diverging bar the paired bar chart makes it easier to compare the total share of disagree and agree.then, paired bar or diverging bar? building your visualizationcomparing categories: diverging bar stacked bar can also be used to show the likert scales. it is then easier to see the distribution. then, stacked bar or diverging bar? building your visualizationcomparing categories: diverging bar diverging bar: differences across groupspaired bar: differences within groupstacked bar: distributionwhich is your emphasis? building your visualizationexercise 1making bar charts using excel and tableau public building your visualizationcomparing categories: dot plotin dot plot, symbol, like circle, represents the data value; line or arrow then connects values.it makes the comparisonmuch easier, if compared with paired bar chart. building your visualizationcomparing categories: dot plot building your visualizationcomparing categories: dot plotwe may sort the data to show more details. building your visualizationcomparing categories: dot plotuse labels and annotations to make it easier to understand. building your visualizationcomparing categories: dot plotwe may use arrows when necessary. building your visualizationcomparing categories: unit, isotype, and waffle chartsunit charts show counts of variable. each symbol indicates an observation or number of units. building your visualizationcomparing categories: unit, isotype, and waffle chartsisotype charts use images or icons instead of simple shapes.isotype stands for international system of typographic picture education. building your visualizationcomparing categories: unit, isotype, and waffle chartsisotype charts: building your visualizationcomparing categories: unit, isotype, and waffle chartsisotype charts: you may use the size of the icon to indicate values, yet at the cost of losing accuracy. building your visualizationcomparing categories: unit, isotype, and waffle chartsisotype charts: building your visualizationcomparing categories: unit, isotype, and waffle chartsisotype charts: building your visualizationcomparing categories: unit, isotype, and waffle chartswaffle charts, as subclass of unit charts, are used when you want to show the part-to-whole relationship. building your visualizationcomparing categories: heatmapheatmaps use colors and color saturations to represent data values.they are table with color-coded cells. they are used when you want to show general patterns instead of exact values. building your visualizationcomparing categories: heatmap building your visualizationcomparing categories: heatmapthe infection rates of measles for every state in america from to . building your visualizationcomparing categories: heatmapthe infection rates of measles for every state in america from to . building your visualizationcomparing categories: heatmap building your visualizationcomparing categories: bubble comparison and nested bubblesin bubble graphs, circles, instead of bars, indicate data values.pros: eye-catchingcons: its harder to tell the exact value; circles cannot indicate negative numbers building your visualizationcomparing categories: bubble comparison and nested bubbles building your visualizationcomparing categories: bubble comparison and nested bubblesnested bubbles can make it easier to compare. building your visualizationcomparing categories: waterfall chart building your visualizationcomparing categories: waterfall chart building your visualizationcomparing categoriesyou have numerous choices if you want to use graphs to show the comparison between different groups. some of them are accurate at showing the exact numbers, while others are eye-catching.it is your major argument and your story that finally decides your choice. 03start your visualization part three start your visualizationdata visualization:excel, tableau publicremember: from time to time, we need to use different software to create the graph we want data analysis:excel, spss start your visualizationtableau public: start your visualizationhow to connect your data: start your visualizationhow to connect your data: data sourceavailable sheetsworksheet tabjoin area preview data start your visualizationhow to connect your data: hide columnsif you want to unhide the columns start your visualizationhow to connect your data: rename columns start your visualizationhow to connect your data: change the datatype:number; string; date; geographic start your visualizationhow to connect your data: split columns start your visualizationusing tableau public for your visualization: dimensions (categories)measures (continuous numbers)select data area showing your graphsuggested options for your visualization start your visualizationbar chart: corresponds the horizontal axis select datacorresponds the vertical axis start your visualizationbar chart: start your visualizationpaired chart: start your visualizationpaired bar chart: start your visualizationstacked bar chart: start your visualizationstacked bar chart: start your visualizationstacked chart: start your visualizationstacked bar chart: start your visualizationbubble comparison: start your visualizationbubble comparison: you can drag in here whatever dimensions/measures you want your graph to show start your visualizationbubble comparison: edit the labels here start your visualizationisotype chart: how to change the bubble chart to isotype chart start your visualizationbubble comparison: edit the color here start your visualizationbubble comparison: change the bubbles into word cloud start your visualizationhighlight table: edit the color here start your visualizationheat map: drag the amount into color. this means that we use the color density to indicate numbers. start your visualizationdot plot:we want to show the gift amount change from to .step : create stacked bar chart start your visualizationdot plot:step : change the mark into circle start your visualizationdot plot:step : duplicate the graph and converge them into one start your visualizationdot plot:step : duplicate the graph and converge them into one start your visualizationdot plot:step : in the second layer, change the mark into line, and then drag the year (out of color) into path start your visualizationdot plot:the underlying logic is to ) create two overlapping graphs; ) make one as dots, and another as lines start your visualizationdiverging bars:carbon emission file as an example year should be set as dimension in this case.under this situation, we cannot reverse any single category. start your visualizationdiverging bars:step : the key of making diverging bar is to create two separate variables. right click on blank area. create two new measures/variables. start your visualizationdiverging bars:the key of making diverging bar is to create two separate variables. start your visualizationdiverging bars:step : reverse bars on the left. start your visualizationdiverging bars:step : change the color drag industry in the color. start your visualizationmake diverging bars in excel:step : insert stacked bar start your visualizationmake diverging bars in excel:step : change one of them as the secondary axis start your visualizationmake diverging bars in excel:step : reverse the primary axis start your visualizationmake diverging bars in excel:step : change the min and max values for both axis (same for both axis) start your visualizationmake diverging bars in excel:step : make some adjustment time for exercise!
machine learning forartists week four alternatives to linear regression problems with linear models .linear models are highly sensitive to outliers (atypical points) in the training dataset. .most phenomena in real life are not accurately represented by linear models. (we can say, roughly speaking, that most phenomena are not linear). we can solve the first problem using ransac. this method uses randomized sampling to eliminate outliers . but we are still left with the second problem. source: wikipedia to tackle the second problem: instead of linear model, we can try nonlinear regression methods. alternatives to linear models there are many such alternatives. we are going to consider only two in this lesson. .knn regression .decision tree regression alternatives to linear models: knn regression this approach assigns to any input value that is the average of the values of its nearest neighbours. how do we select nearest neighbors? in knn regression, we choose the datapoints closest to the input we wish to regress, using some measure of distance. in radius nn regression, we choose those datapoints whose distance to the input is within specified radius. the value of or of the radius are chosen by the programmer, or using other methods. alternatives to linear models: knn regression source : alternatives to linear models: decision tree regression hierarchical tree is collection of nodes and edges branching out from root. every node (except the root) has exactly one incoming edge. source: -learning -basics -decision -tree-regression- 1d73ea003fda decision tree regression nodes are of two kinds, terminal and non- terminal. non -terminal nodes are divided: they have exactly two outgoing edges (left and right). non- terminal nodes are also called interior nodes. terminal nodes have no outgoing edges. terminal nodes are also called leaf nodes. source: -learning -basics -decision -tree-regression- 1d73ea003fda decision tree regression decision tree is the representation of sequence of tests or questions used to arrive at decision regarding the output value of some input. each test or question is used to eliminate some possible outputs. every non- terminal node represents such test. source: decision -tree-regression- using -sklearn/ decision tree regression source: -decision -tree-regression -using -sklearn/ decision tree regression given an input, decision tree applies test or asks question about the input. depending on the result of the test or the answer to the question, the input is channeled to the left or right node and the test represented by the new node is then applied to the input. the process continues recursively until terminal node is reached. the input datapoint is thus propagated through the tree. at every step, the dataset is partitioned into two subsets such that similar points are in the same subset and different points are in different subsets. the training phase optimizes the parameters associated with the internal nodes and leaf nodes for the task of regression. decision tree regression tutorial on decision tree regression: -decision -tree- regression -using - sklearn/ decision tree regression problem with decision trees: decision trees tend to overfit the training data. to address this problem, an ensemble of randomly trained decision trees is often used. example from scikit -learn : face completion with linear and nonlinear regression models source: scikit -learn library
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow & building your visualization iidr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow building your visualization-comparing categories 02start your visualization 01design workflow part one design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions. design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions.to make the best decisions you need to be familiar with all your optionsand aware of the things that will influence your choices.options: things you could dochoices: things you will do design workflowwhy do we need design workflow?to help navigate smoothly through all this decision makingto reduce the randomness and inefficiencies in our approach and remove the temptation to be driven by taste alonewe need workflow to help organize the sequence of our thinking.the design workflow involves four key stages: design workflowa few observations about the workflow:pragmatic: aims to provide framework for thinking, rather than instructions for learning.reducing the randomness of your approach: the workflow approach aims to break down activities into connected system of thinking that will help to organize and preserve the cohesiveness of your activities.protect experimentation: the systematic approach should not be seen as squeezing out the scope for creativity or eradicating any space for experimentation.facilitate adaptability and iteration: the workflow is characterized as design process rather than procedure. good process should facilitate the adaptability and remove the inflexibility of defined procedure of operation. design workflowa few observations about the workflow:the first occasion, not the last: it is important to note that the tasks you face at each stage in the process will represent the first occasion you pay attention to these matters, but not the final occasion.always the same process: the key thing is that the process you follow will always require the same activities in the same sequence, regardless of the size, speed and complexity of your challenge.partitioning your mindset: it is important to appreciate the activities that will require different mindsets: thinking, doing, making. design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently made design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently made design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently made design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently made design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madewhat do you want to do?what could you do?what will do you?how to do it better? design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madewhat do you think is the most challenging problem facing the hong kong society? design workflowdesign workflow stagesalthough this process is presented as being neatly linear, it is inevitably not always the case in reality.there are always going to be iterations, loops and changes that force us to move around somewhat. also, undertaking the activities in this workflow requires you to juggle and jump between different mindsets. design workflowgeneral tips & tactics ahead of commencing the design workflow:this will be the first time you think about each of the stages and activities, not the last visualization design is much about plate-spinning management as anything else.managing progress and resources: good planning, time and resource management keep process cohesive and progressing.room to think: clear thinking helps with efficiency or effort. design workflowgeneral tips & tactics ahead of commencing the design workflow:heuristics to support decisions: when time is pressurizing you and when you will need to make call, you might have to occasionally rely on heuristic techniquesthat help to speed up your decision-making at certain stages.pen and paper: will prove to be one of your key tools.note-taking: habit worth developing.communication:() listening to stakeholders (clients or colleagues); () speaking to others. design workflowgeneral tips & tactics ahead of commencing the design workflow:heuristic technique refers to any approach to problem-solving that uses practical method or various shortcuts in order to produce solutions that may not be optimal but are sufficient given limited timeframe or deadline. design workflowgeneral tips & tactics ahead of commencing the design workflow:research: an activity that will exist as constant, running along the spine of your process thinking.attention to detail:is an obligation the integrity of your work is paramount.make the workflow work for you: practice and adapt the approach to suityou.be honest with yourself: do not be precious and have the discipline not to do things, to kill ideas, to avoid scope-creep.learn: reflective learning is about looking back over your work, examining the output and evaluating your approach. design workflow design workflowa brief represents set of requirementsand captures all the relevant information about the nature and expectations of task or project.what do you want to do?what are you supposed to do?spending time formulating your brief helps to establish initial clarity about the definitions and requirement of the data visualization work.there are two components to this stage: defining the contextand the vision. design workflowform in group of -6think of one thing that you want the whole class to know about design workflowmy example: design workflowthe essence of defining context is simple: building an understanding of the why, who, where and when. defining the context of your visualization this is not why in the sense of because your teacher asked you to.it should bethe why in this case concerns the curiosity, or an eagerness to know or learn something.the object of your visualization should be to facilitate understanding. what understanding are you trying to facilitate? to what question are you attempting to provide some notion of an answer to help your audience enhance their understanding of subject. design workflowdefining the context of your visualization dont worry if you do not have very clear answer to the why question.at this stage, the curiositycan be open and ambiguous or detailed and specific.thinking about why aims to giveyou some sense of focus. your curiosity will likely evolveas you get deeper into your workflow, especially as you get more acquainted with your potential data. design workflowdefining the context of your visualization personal intriguei wonder whatstakeholder intrigue he/she needs to knowaudience intrigue they will need to knowanticipated intrigue they might be interested in knowingpotential intrigue there might be something interesting design workflowdefining the context of your visualizationwhy do you want your class to know your topic/story? design workflowdefining the context of your visualizationdefining the circumstances: who, where and whendefining the circumstances involves identifying all the factors and requirements that will surround and characterize the visualization process you are about to undertake.these factors include practical, social or technical definitions that will shape the boundaries and/or freedoms on people, consumption, constraints, deliverables and resources. design workflowdefining the context of your visualizationpeoplewho are the people involved?the characteristicsof your intended or target audienceconsumptionit relates to identifying the setting and frequency.settingis the situation in which the audience will encounter your work.will it be for rapid consumption or more prolonged?will it be presented or consumed remotely?frequencyconcerns how often particular project will be repeated.it is one-off or regular task?to what extent will audiences benefit from repeated exposure? design workflowdefining the context of your visualizationconstraintspressuresrelating to timescale or financial pressures.rulesmay also exist.restrictions of layout/size or colordeliverableswhat is the expected output format(print, digital, etc.)?estimated size or quantity of your work?resourcesknowledge, skills and technology available to produce your work. design workflowdefining the context of your visualization whats the circumstances of your project? design workflowdefining the context of your visualizationafter youve solved the curiosity problem, ask yourself these questions. design workflowcontext: why, who, where, and whenvision: what and howvision is defined as the ability to think about or plan the future with imagination or wisdom.the next thing you need to do:whatare you trying to accomplish?depending on what you want to achieve, you will develop clearer understanding of how you might achieve this through the most suitable style of visualization. defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposealthough facilitating understanding is the common aim of our visualization, there is broad and legitimate range of different flavors of understanding. to change peoples behavior, to inform, or some others?defining the purpose of your work will strongly influence the how. defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposethe purpose map: positions all types of visualization based on two key dimensions: the experience, across the top, and the tone, down the side. horizontal axisthree experiences through which understanding will be facilitated to your audience: explanatory, exhibitory, exploratoryvertical axisdifferent tone of voice through which understanding will be facilitated to your audience: reading and feeling data. defining the vision of your visualization design workflowdefining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposetone reading tone: the tone of your visualization design will be geared towards optimizing the ease with which viewers can accuratelyestimate the magnitude of and relationships between values.you need to put more emphasis on precision, detail, and efficiency of making sense of values.feeling tone: more importance on attracting and sustaining engagement, and possibly amplifying subjects emotion. defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposetone defining the vision of your visualization filmographics| jamie lee curtis (visualisingdata.com) design workflowpurposetone defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposeexperience explanatoryexplanatory experiences involve visualization designer saying something through their visuals. the designer brings to the surface some of the key points they want the viewer to know above all else. highlight key finding in chartproviding simple caption to emphasize main discovery defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposeexperience exploratoryexploratory experiences enable viewers to interactively explore and interrogate in order to undertake their own discoveries and find insights only they can determine the relevance of.in contrast to the explanatory experience, here there are no key messages or emphasized takeaways. sometimes, it is better fit solution to let people navigate towards their own specific slices of interest. defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposeexploratory experiencetry this interactive map: defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposeexperience exhibitoryexhibitory experiences are neither explanatory or exploratory.this kind of experience is just display of data that places emphasis on the viewer to know what they are looking for and how to find it. defining the vision of your visualization design workflowpurposeexperiencewhat do you want your project to be?defining the vision of your visualization design workflowthe final aspect: harnessing ideasto allow yourself time and space to freely consider what ideas come to mind when you think of your subject. is it about people, sales, feelings, sport, politics? what imagery, shapes or forms, or maybe metaphors might help your audience associate and orientate themselves? what external sources of inspiration can you find to help influence your creative thinking? anything cameto your mind that may inspire your visualization. defining the vision of your visualization design workflow summary for stage : formulating your briefcontext: preparing your understanding of the drivers, requirements and conditions surrounding visualization projectvision: commencing your early creative thinking about the likely best-fit style of your work, given its intended purpose 02building your visualization part two building your visualizationcomparing categories: marimekko and mosaic chartsin standard bar chart, data values are indicated by the height of the bars, while the widths are same.in marimekko chart, widths of the bars indicate values of another variable. building your visualizationcomparing categories: marimekko and mosaic chartsin the ten most populous countries:height: the percentage of people with less than $. per daywidth: the share of the total population among the countriesbars are scaled according to the width.it allows us to find the relationshipbetween the two variables. building your visualizationcomparing categories: marimekko and mosaic chartsthere are other ways to show the relationship between two variables.well talk about this later. building your visualizationcomparing categories: marimekko and mosaic chartsa mosaic chart is marimekko chart having both the heights and the widths of the bars sum to percent. compared with the marimekko, mosaic chart can provide part-to-whole perspective. building your visualizationcomparing categories: sankey diagramsankey diagrams show how categories compare to one another and flow into other categories. building your visualizationcomparing categories: sankey diagramsankey diagram vs paired or stacked bar chart building your visualizationcomparing categories: sankey diagramsankey diagram would be inappropriate if you have too many categories. building your visualizationcomparing categories: waterfall chartas special bar chart, waterfall chart highlights the adding or subtracting values.you may use different colors to tell positive values from negative ones. 03start your visualization part three start your visualizationwaterfall chart:step : create standard bar chart start your visualizationwaterfall chart:step : change the bars into aggregated totals start your visualizationwaterfall chart:step : change the bars into gantt bar start your visualizationwaterfall chart:step : create new measure (the negative value of the measure you care) start your visualizationwaterfall chart:step : drag the new measure into size start your visualizationwaterfall chart:step : analysis-total-show row grand totals start your visualizationwaterfall chart:step : change the colors, labels if necessary start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:each column represents city; the bars length represents % of gift amount for each gift allocation category; the bars width represents the gift amount. start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:what we can easily do: we need to:)make the length represents %)make the width change with the gift amount start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : create basic table start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : calculate the percentage (the distribution withina city) start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : calculate the width of the bars double click the measure value to add another column of measure start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : calculate the width of the bars to create new measure:right click in blank area. then create calculated field.expression to create new measure that aggregates the total gift amount within city:{ fixed [city]: sum([gift amount])} start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : calculate the width of the bars drag the new measure to the measure values area start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : calculate the width of the bars create another new measure gift amount -axis, which is the aggregation of cities.expression goes like:if first()== then min([size])elseif min([city])<>lookup(min([city]),-) then previous_value()+min([size])else previous_value()end start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : calculate the width of the bars start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : duplicate the sheet and start to make the chart columns: gift amount -axis (the aggregation of totals city by city)rows:the percentagesize(of the bars):the calculated size start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : duplicate the sheet and start to make the chart remember to change the computing using into city or the unit of your analysis start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:step : make some adjudgments start your visualizationmarimekko and mosaic charts:the key is to calculate three new variables (measures), and then make the chart using the function of size.the calculation can be easier in excel. you may get the worksheet ready in excel before making the graph in tableau.there is no best way to visualize your data. all depend on what you wantto do, and what you cando. you may choose the way you prefer. start your visualizationsankey diagram time for exercise!
. photography as communication medium: to tell story . every frame is little story, they conjure up as complete one. the two photos at the right represent the sequence of an incident. ii. news photo: story of action without knowing what happens to the subject, photo cannot tell proper story. subjects can be person or anything. however, the principle is that those were included in the photo must take action or undergoing an event. iii. pre-requisite: knowledge based although photo capture the precious moment of an event which should be self-explanatory. we must consider the audience' awareness of the event to ensure effective transfer of messages. like the signal sent in the photo of the classic moment like maradonna' "hand of god", etc. we may not get the message of events that we did not have experience. although people can report the things happened to you, you hardly imagine the exact picture without photo. (you might be able to imagine the character, dialogues but hardly for the character' details or background details). therefore, visual communication provide instant absorption of wholeness and details. iv. context (background of the photo) apart from people and things involved in the photo, the background, simply the context for the photo are also significant to represent what' the character involved, times they were in and things they were doing. . inventing photographic meaning there are thousand methods to present messages in photographs. one should choose the right techniques to present. for example, to present the facial outline we need close-up while to present the activity or movement we resort to distant view. . primary and secondary component: in term of expression and communication, primary component of graphic represents the image iteself, without evaluating the meanings and intention for the image. for example, the painting from paul cezzanne is beautiful but never tell what' beautiful. as for secondary component, it is all about the meanings and context for the painting. thinking photography . photography as communication medium: to tell story/ . inventing photographic meaning / .the image-world-photographic image as re ection of the reality / . story of city single-tier meaning or multi-tier meanings even though it is common to use photos to convey message, meanings, or even story of the captured person. there is slight differentiation between exact (single) or multi-tier meaning expressions. . single-tier meaning the composition of the photo which strengthens speci and selective meaning, without obscuring or any over-complexity.example: journal photographyadvantage: to strengthen the message ii. multi-tier meanings the meanings in this category are always incomplete and inexact allowing rooms for interpretation.the composition of the photo which diversifies the possible meanings, obscuring the exact meaning and left for further discussion (or imagination).example: (modern)artworks or photos as artworksadvantage: to stimulate imagination and induce continued "digestive" process after being seen the first time. meaning indication: expression the gesture, facial expression or body language would emit signal to reader no matter if they have specific intention. that means the photo reveal something which is observable and needs no word to communicate. meaning indication: expression ii the sub-facial expression or sometimes unintentional movement that captured by photographer can also indicate the further meanings from the photo. those photos would evoke another layer of meaning and let its reader to speculate. meaning indication: signifying sometimes, photo don' speak directly. on the contrary, the events, characters and surroundings will form combined signal to let viewer associate the intent meaning. the facial expression of the girl conveys no joy but sadness. in addition to the hands gesture from the neighboring adult, it conveys the event of consolation. the gesture and crying face represents the saddening feeling from the boy, which strenghthened from the dead body of the dog. single-tier meaning the way of the children look upon indicates something curious is near to them. (but not to the adult !!!)so, what were they looking at? multi-tier meanings they might look at the dogs playing there? or there were other groups of children playing there? water tubs + water tubs (with childs)wall paints (signage) multi-tier meanings ??????? meaning indication: subject () asuming every photographer has meaning to tell before taking the photo. therefore, some unusual combination/ composition in the photo would certainly be the notes of interest / contrast. meaning indication: subject () ii the subject in the photograph will allow us to interpret part of the meaning it carried. for example, photograph of protest with all participanting subject as women would suggest it protest related to women' right. magic of association: juxtaposition: similarity and difference even though we know there are varieties of objects, we seldom compare them until we see them placed next to one another. therefore, photos allowing comparison (editor' decision to place the photos side by side) or the introduction of contrasting element to create encounter of this varieties and stimulate the readers to think.by providing opportunity to compare and contrast, it increase the interest of two separate photo by putting two in one to present. people and angel why putting ower on the gun . the image-world- photographic image as re ection of the reality re ection of the reality = exact meaning ? to take photo is to capture the object in real time and space. however, this may not be the only meaning embedded? as mentioned before, there are single-tier meaning and mulit-tier meaning in each photo. we may need to guess and judge from the identity of distributors,the content in the photo or the subject' expression. "photo is always used to report the objective fact." objective capture: photo-journalismphoto-journalism is one of source to take photos which represent the crying face + handsthe barren land and the object for funnaked baby and the baby in nappy reality. like newspaper, the photo in the columns was used to report the news and usually are "talkative" themselves. re ection on time and history the reflection on times is always objective because some fashion, ways of living or style could never happen again. these photos only existed in certain time and venue. therefore, they relfect the reality of what had happened, serving as record of history. icon of times the inclusion of signi ed subject can also re ect the history (objective truth), like the falldown of lenin statue, marked signi cant period on change in history. spectacle: "subjective" viewpointalthough the content of photo is real, photographer could also invent the message of the photo by using different techniques such as viewpoint, framing or color adjustment, in order to strengthen the meaning and make photo special. spectacle: unusual fact photo which reflects reality could also be illusional. these photos captured the unusual angle or portray of the subjects. like we can harldy capture speed in movement, or events that we don' always experience. photo to recall memories according to famous poet marcel proust, reality is distant but photography implies instant access to real... to possess the world in the form of images is, precisely, to re-experience the unreality and remotedness of the real.in his strategy, in order to re-animate what is usually available only in remote form, the past --- which is where the present becomes in this senses real, that is something that can be possessed....such deep discoveries he called the technique of "involuntary memory".therefore, photograph are not the instrument of memory but the memory replacement. people with past experience will have the instant memory back at the present time. for example, the concentration camp in dachau. "it is not reality makes photographs immediately accessible, but images." susan sontag, on photography the fact of reality, imagination of reality the capture of the photo or the moment is real, but the power of the photos are partly coming from our imagination, our understanding of the meanings inferred. therefore, if the imagination we had was realistic, the emotion that we felt was realistic, the photos are realistic too. real town, ghost town and real feeling. . story of city . to capture the moment the composition of the photo relies on the subject and its cont ext. some of them are changing and not static, thus photograph is to catch the moment. the principle is as if: wait and shoot. "composition must be one of our constant preoccupations, but at the moment of shooting it can stem only from our intuition, for we are out to capture the fugitive moment , and all the interrelationships invloved are on the move ." ii. way learned from situationaist: invent our surroundings to seize the moment for the actors (the construction workers, anderers and fish people.), composition with the background (victoria harbour and buildings) and frame (the shadow of bridge) was essential. iii. the moment the moment can be encountered, identified, created or modified. iv. to freeze the moment to take photo at specific second of the moment is voluntary and involuntary. to capture photo of great moment is sometimes skill, yet sometimes luck. for you, city might never be beautiful or perfect. sometimes ugliness or imperfection is beautiful.texture, color and the historical proof also form composition of beauty. there is no closed figure which do not relate in nature. ever shape works with another. no one thing is independent another. ever thing rhymes with another, and li ght gives them shape .
the beast in the beautyweek . ugliness, chaos in art and science what is ugliness? unbalance of form, contrived, arbitrary structure disease, broken, rottenmadness, suffering, contradiction, confusionignorance, darkness, insecuritybeautyis associated with balance, harmony, elegance, simplicity, knowledge, light, understandinguglinessis associated witha reassuring order?an indomitable chaos?+++++++++ hatis ugliness?unbalance of form,contrived, arbitrary structure disease, broken, rottenmadness, suffering, contradiction, confusionignorance, darkness, insecurityis with balance, harmony, elegance, simplicity, knowledge, light, understandinga reassuringorder?ugliness is associatedto beautyassociated anindomitable chaos? the artist and the scientist constantly rub shoulders with both in search of more delicate order (chaos is only part of the process) ... or is order part of the process instead and chaos the goal? tamed chaos and tamed order what is ugliness vs. beauty in science?again, its all about balance, relevance, certain simplicity (even in the most complex theory)as we will see, these are fundamental, transcendent principles (in art or science). they are often abused (consciously or not) to justify all sort of injustices:attractiveness is not transcendent beautygenetic defects do not make person defective . beauty cannot exist without uglinessas the seedas negative space that defines it1.structure emerges naturally from chaos: in fact it is always there, but we cannot see it2.chaos, decay occurs naturally and is inevitable (entropy) ) the relation is fundamental: fractals, chaos and order in science (later) an ugly theory may be useful/necessary for momentan ugly theory is useful as long as it exposesits flawsin fact, every theory should have an ugly spot ( glitch?):it is this flaw the seed of inspiration for scientists and artiststhey must be ready to throw everything and start againa moment of chaos: stressful, but prefiguring discovery and deeper beauty again: this course is about training your mind not to fear the shepard elephant ) the relation is also essential for the creative process his powers of destruction and recreation help destroy the illusions and imperfections of this world, paving the way for perfection.shiva is known to have untamed passion, which leads him to extremes in behaviour. sometimes he is an ascetic, abstaining from all worldly pleasures, at others he is hedonist.... how this is not the cliche of the artist/scientist!?shiva and the cosmic danceshivaperform the tandava, the cosmic dance which both creates and destroys the universe. when tandava is performed with joy is calledananda tandava(dance of creation) and when performed in violent mood (whenever there is disturbance in the nature and hence in consciousness) is calledrudra tandava(dance of destruction). ) the relation inspires cosmogonies process of ideation: danse between divergent and convergent forces 'now am become death, the destroyer of worlds'-vishnu, bhagavad-gitaquoted by robert oppenheimer on the detonation of the first atomic bombnot all forces of destruction prefigure creation controlled chaos .. nor is perfect order blessing need controlled order! start again? refactor everything from scratch? spaghetti code: what is the fastest way to repair it? discovering when to destroy, when to clean up is an art in itself but first, one needs to see where you are in the cycle:recognize structurerecognize true chaos ) and what about beauty of the human body? the ugly duchess(painting byquentin matsys, ca. ) fernando botero, pope leo , beauty/balance of the body as perfect machine, work of art ...attractivenessis different concept! are these things related? twilight zone -eye of the beholder () why? unconscious associations?evolution: fear of disease, death, decay; attractiveness is indicative of healthsocial organization: fear of disorder, difference, moral stigmatizationa widespread repulsion that can be ugly...discrimination or prejudice against unattractive people is sometimes referred to aslookismorcacophobiateratophobiais an aversion or fear of people who appear monstrous, have blemishes or are disfigured.physical attractivenessis associated with positive qualities; in contrast, physical unattractiveness is associated with negative qualities. trypophobiais an aversion to the sight of irregular patterns or clusters of small holes or bumps although few studies have been done on trypophobia, researchers hypothesize that it is the result of biological revulsion that associates trypophobicshapes with danger or disease and may therefore have anevolutionarybasis. everything breaks apart. there is no perfect machine the vitruvian man is based on the notion that the the human body is the basis for all proportion. the entire body can fit within circle and square. beauty is inevitably lost.no elixir of youth... zed & two noughtsis film written and directed bypeter greenaway. the film is rumination on life, love, bad sex, doubling, man' mistreatment of animals, artificeversus life force and the inevitability of birth, death and decay.decay medical illustrations: depicting the drawing of the position of the heart of an elephant found in the el pindalcaves in spain dating from the upper paleolithic (, years ago) used perhaps as diagram to teach hunters where to aim their spears, is perhaps the worlds oldest known example of medical illustration. the human machine: anatomical drawings of leonardo the groundbreaking anatomical drawings of leonardo da vinci broke longstanding taboo in christianity regarding the dissection of corpses. they parallel the mechanical illustrations he produced, and speak to the same desire to understand the inner mechanics of the body as machine (perhaps foreshadowing the mechanistic model of the universe which would arrive with the copernican revolution).the exploded/cross sectional views of the human anatomy were used as aids for artists to understand how to accurately represent the human body. ... the catholic church had made the dissection of corpses illegal at the time, unless you were physician. da vinci had to get grave robbers to retrieve bodies for him!the majority of the dissections he performed were done in secret, under the cover of night. andreas vesalius: de humani corporis fabrica(of the structure of the human body) flemish physician andreas vesaliuss book of anatomy based on the close study of dissected cadavers was milestone of modern medical science and was used as standard medical textbook until the 19th century. it improved on and corrected the understanding of the skeletal, muscular, vascular and circulatory systems, the nervous system the abdominal organs and heart. up to that point the european understanding of the body had been based on the work of the roman physician galen which did not use diagrams for its descriptions of the parts of the body and also integrated elements of astrology.the three-dimensional, cross sectional views which revealed the organs beneath layers of muscle, veins and bones became the new standard for representations of the body in scientific way, and also became an anatomical handbook for artists of the renaissance as well. school of titian and vesalius: influence of art on science the illustrations for the book were produced by jan van calcar from the workshop of the venetian artist titian. it was the quality of the diagrams, combined with innovations in woodblock printing, which contributed to the influence of vesaliuss book. in this way, artists had an enormous impact on the development and progress of modern science. hieronymus bosch boschs depictions of heaven and hell were inspired by the devastation wrought upon europe by the black plague while the half human, half bird like figures were inspired by the elaborate bird masks doctors wore to treat plague victims (as the virus was believed to be transmitted via smell) seyakuin kainan taizzu japanese anatomical texts from the edo period (-) drew largely from chinese medical knowledge of the body but were influenced visually by the dutch and their trading port in nagasaki with which brought in physician who had drawn from vesaliuss anatomical drawings. lam qua and chinese medical painting lam qua was canontese painter practicing in the early 19th century who was hired by the american opthamologist and missionary peter parker to document the chinese ailments of the patients he operated on. the paintings were shown to audiences in america to raise money for parkers missions as well as demonstrate the backward and uncivilized character of chinese society and prefigure the colonial photographic typologies used to survey and control local populations. the paintings have shocking and surreal quality which speaks to the representation of china as the sick man of asia. morbid anatomy? the "venerina", museum ofpalazzo poggi,bolognaclemente michelangelo susini() was an italian sculptor who became renowned for his wax anatomical models, vividly and accurately depicting partly dissected corpses. these models were praised by both doctors and artists. so, does beauty, ugliness, chaos and order really exist, or are these illusions? biascontexttransient statesemergent structure (hidden?) in chaos richardfeynman, the theoretical physicist who received the nobel prize in for his work developing quantum electrodynamics, once famously said what cannotcreate, do notunderstand. feynmans last blackboard () plastinationis technique or process used inanatomyto preserve bodies or body parts, first developed bygunther von hagensin ernst haeckel german natural ernst haeckels precisely observed drawings of various organisms have influenced contemporary artists and filmmakers. gaspar noe, enter the void, james cameron, avatar, haeckel was also eugenicist who theorized that from his observations of single cell organisms and the physiognomy of animals that humans have ultimately evolved from situates the european race as the apex of evolution and other races as lower down the evolutionary chain. in buddhism, judging by appearances is to get entangled in the veil ofmayain indian philosophy, maya connotes magic show, an illusion where things appear to be present but are not waht theyu seem () . . escherwaterfall() demonstrates the hindu concept of maya (). my not only deceives people about the things they think they know; more basically, it limits their knowledge ()maya is born, changes, evolves, dies with time, from circumstances, due to invisible principles of nature, state the upanishads. atman-brahman is eternal, unchanging, invisible principle, unaffected absolute and resplendent consciousness.science and art seek to understand this sort of truth for this, the artist or scientist need to understand and play with the mechanisms of revealing and hidingof destroying and looking insideof rebuilding the dark enlightenment: cesare lombroso, and degeneration theory as mentioned in the previous lecture, the corrolorary of mathematical theory of beauty is that there might be universal structure for what is perceived as ugly. this response to darvi .. btw, physical attractiveness seems negativelyassociated with perceived scientific aptitude. gheorghiu ai, callan mj, skylark wj. facial appearance affects science communication. proc natl acad sci . jun ;():-. lets face it: we are attracted by beauty, but also fascinated by ugliness the dark side is powerfulthere is creative potential in chaosthere is potential for positive change in revolutionthe ugly, the strange, the uncanny are sources of inspiration fyodor dostoyevsky' novelthe double() presents the doppelgnger as an opposite personality who exploits the character failings of the protagonist to take over his life. one designs clocks to be as regular as physically possible. so much so that they are the very instruments of determinism. the coin flip plays similar role; it expresses our ideal of the utterly unpredictable. randomness is as necessary to physics as determinismthink of the essential role that molecular chaos plays in establishing the existence of thermodynamic states. the clock and the coin flip, as such, are mathematical ideals to which reality is often unkind. the extreme difficulties of engineering the perfect clock1and implementing source of randomness as pure as the fair coin testify to the fact that determinism and randomness are two inherent aspects of all physical processes.between order and chaos, james . crutchfieldnature physicsvolume8,pages1724() robert louis stevenson, the strange case of dr. jekyll and mr. hyde()hiding our perceived or real ugliness... the picture of dorian grayis agothicandphilosophical novelbyoscar wilde, 1890v freud, the unconscious and surrealism ... do we hide an ugly animal? "as beautiful as the chance encounter of sewing machine and an umbrella on an operating table"-comte de lautramont the uncanny valley the uncanny is another freudian concept that refers to what unconsciously reminds us of our own id, our forbidden and thus repressed impulses can also refer to the strangely familiar of dolls, waxworks and robots. the abject paul mccarthyrobert gober chapman brothersjulia kristeva' concept of abjection is related to the uncanny, where one reacts adversely to something forcefully cast out of the symbolic order. kristeva lays special emphasis on the uncanny return of the past abject with relation to the 'uncanny stranger. draws from jacques lacans rsi. esprit jouffret, elementary treatise on the geometry of four dimensions, einsteinian physics had strong influence on art marcel duchamp, nude descending staircase, wintin few years, the human body would move from highly formalized to chaotic and fragmented representation william bougeureau, la vague, picasso, le demoiselle de avignon, in france the new movement of experimental poetry follows in the wake of dada experiments with the sound poem and lettrisme, which explains, perhaps, why french concrete poetry is characterized by advanced methods of experimentation. it was launched in by pierre garnier' "manifesto for new poetry visual and phonic," which appeared in les lettres no. . garnier named the new movementspatialisme,for he sensed that man' new awareness of himself as cosmic being in the age of space required revision of language to express itself:once we lived safely beneath our stratum of air. now we are waves spouting in the cosmos. how can we expect our words to remain wrapped up in the atmosphere of the sentence?experimentation is exploring the limits of, and often result in the breaking of rules uniqueness (as in perfect beauty its negative space?)profound understanding that balance exist because of imbalanceugliness is presupposed in the search of beauty and perfectiondoesnt ugliness have an element of beauty?perhaps the ugliest effects of ugliness is prejudice in other areas ... form of kitsch? ( superficial appreciation of the value of things) chaos feeds the creative processunconventional is state of mindsearched explicitly or be second naturemeditation, drugs, altered states all this reflects in the cliches of the mad scientist and the crazy artistthe problem is, one must come back from the tripcontrolled chaos, reorganizing chaos (emergent structure)
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow iv & term projectdr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow iv term project 02in-class exam 01design workflow iv part one design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions. design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe second stage: giving all the things we could show, what will we show? design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe design phase will focus on five layers of visualization design: data representation, interactivity, annotation, color and composition.after data representation, interactivity is the second layer of design thinking. interactivityfeaturesforinteractivity:dataandpresentationadjustmentsthe advantages of interactivity filmographics| steven spielberg (visualisingdata.com) interactivityfeaturesforinteractivity:dataandpresentationadjustmentsthe advantages of interactivityit expands the physical limits of what you can show in given space.it increases the quantity and broadens the variety of angles of analysis to serve different curiosities.it facilitates manipulations of the data displayed to handle variedinterrogations.it increases the overall control and potential customization of the experience.it amplifies your creative licenceand the scope for exploring different techniques for engaging users. interactivityfeaturesforinteractivity:dataandpresentationadjustmentsthe value of interactivitythere are occasions when the availability of relevant technologyand the need for manipulating and interrogating data coincide, opening up the potential for enhancing the experience of visualizationthrough useful interactive features.not everything can or should be made interactive, but when the need arises, we need to think carefully about the type and deployment of the features incorporated. interactivityfeaturesforinteractivity:dataandpresentationadjustmentsthere are two groups of options to consider: data adjustment features that controlwhatdata is displayed and presentation adjustment features that control how the data is displayed. interactivitydataadjustmentsframing:concernstheframingofwhatdatatoisolate,includeorexcludefromview interactivitydataadjustmentsframing:concernstheframingofwhatdatatoisolate,includeorexcludefromview interactivitydataadjustmentsnavigating: there are dynamic features that enable users to expand or explore greater levels of detail in the displayed data. this includes lateral movement and vertical drill-down capabilities.the dot map, showing the census data, displays population density across the usa. you can use scrollable zoom or scaled zoom to zoom in and out of different map view levels. interactivitydataadjustmentsnavigating interactivitydataadjustmentsanimating: automatic or controlled time-lapse portrayals, offering play/pause/stop buttons or slide controls to let users select moments-in-time of interest. interactivitydataadjustmentsanimating: automatic or controlled time-lapse portrayals, offering play/pause/stop buttons or slide controls to let users select moments-in-time of interest. interactivitydataadjustmentssequencing: features to navigate through distinct linear or layered view content. interactivitydataadjustmentssequencingthe project how americans die offers journey through many different angles of analysis. clicking on the series of pagination dots and/or the navigation buttons will take you through pre-prepared sequence of displays to build narrative. interactivitydataadjustmentscontributing: offering the means for users to input data in order to customizethe analysis. interactivitypresentation adjustmentsfocusing: options to modify the editorial focus within chart, letting users select what features to emphasize/de-emphasize. interactivitypresentation adjustmentsfocusing: focus filter enables users to select radio button from the list of options to emphasize different cohorts of all nobel leureates(as of ). as you can see the selections include filters for women, shared winners and those who were still living at the time. the selected laureates are not colored differently, rather the unselected values are significantly lightened to create the contrast. interactivitypresentation adjustmentsfocusing: interactivitypresentation adjustmentsannotating: features that reveal more details through pop-up tooltips, such as value labels, further charts, helpful guides about reading chartsorcommentsaboutthedata. interactivitypresentation adjustmentsannotating: interactivitypresentation adjustmentsorientating: different type of interactive annotation comes in the form of orientation devices, helping you to make better sense of your location within display where you are or what values you are lookingat. interactivitybelow is an example illustrating the interactive features employed in the filmographics visualisationproject. interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivitywhatinfluencesyourchoices?when it comes to making decisions about which interactive features to use, there are several main factors that influence your choices, informed by the work weve undertaken in the three preparatory stages of the design workflow (formulating your brief, working with data and establishing your editorial thinking). ensuring you observe the three principles of good visualizationdesign (trustworthiness, accessible and elegant) is also supplementary influence. interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivityformulating our brief (context)what toolsyou have access to and the extent of their interactive-offering capabilities will, of course, have significant influence on which features you can employ and how you might be able to incorporate them. for the most advanced and customizableinteractive visualizations, d3.js offers library that gives you extensive control and expressiveness to make feature-rich and elegant interactive visuals. interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivityformulating our brief (context)tableau is desktop tool that, aside from many other strengths and benefits, also enables the development of interactive charts and dashboards, offering many of the data adjustment and presentation features. datawrapperis an increasingly capable web-based charting tool that offers range of useful interactive options in very user-friendly, accessible authoring environment. for most purposes, you can use datawrapperfreeof charge. interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivityworking with datadata examination: what range of data do you wish to include? large datasets with diverse values may need interactive features to help users filter views and interrogate the contents. interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivityestablishing our editorial thinkingangle, framing and focus: choices made about your chosen angle, as well as definitions for framing and focus will all influence interactive choices, especially if users must navigate to view multiple angles of analysis or representations portrayed through animated sequences. interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivitydata representationthe chart type() you are using may be inherently visually complicated, with lots of contents or multiple encodings, and sometimes they work best when interactive features help users to switch off or focus on certain aspects of interest -to reduce the visual clutter and help to de-chunk the process of perceiving what the chart is saying. examples might include sankey diagrams or bump charts (with lots of crisscrossing lines) or treemaps(containing so many items of small detail, too small to provide visible value labels). interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivitydata representation interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivitydesign principlesthe main thing to keep in mind is that just because something can be interactive does not mean that it should be. make things interactive because they add value and, beyond that, resort to interactivity only when you have exhausted the possibility of an appropriate and effective static solution. even then, make it the least interactive thing thatworks. interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivity interactivityinfluencingfactorsandconsiderationsforinteractivitydesign principlestrustworthy design: functional performance and reliability will substantiate the perception of trust from your users.accessible design: any interactive feature should prove to be useful and unobtrusive. interactivity can also assist with challenges around visual accessibility.elegant design:beware of feature creep, minimize the clicks, but embrace the pleasure of playability. 02term project part two term projectcreate our own visualization1.choose topicwhat story will you tell2.justify the significance of the topic3. create visualization4. what data set will you use? how will you get the data?. what methods (visualization tools and techniques)will you use?. what are the main findings from the analysis? term projectschedule1.no mid-term presentation2.make your group by oct. . group consists of - people4. final presentation: at week &. deadline of submission: dec , (:59pm). presentation order will be decided by drawing lot at week . mints for presentation including & term projectevaluation criteria1.informativeness2.aesthetics3.interestingness4.creativity5.rigor term projectdata sourcesgoogle public data explore kong public data census and statistics department (hong kong) kong housing authorities bank term projectoptions you can chooseoption 1focus on data analysesprovide detailed interpretationsuse diverse visualization techniques term projectoptions you can chooseoption 1examples: student works in previous years term projectoptions you can chooseoption 2combined with artistic worke.., animationuse diverse visualization techniquesexamples: student works in previous years term projectwhat you need to do:graphic visual representations of information, data or knowledge intended to present complex information quickly and clearly.information cant always speak for itself. it relies on us to give voice. when we do, information can tell its story, which leads to understanding. term projectuseful toolseasel.lyfree templates according to your interestcustomizing the text with range of fonts, colors, text styles and size.explore the library arrows, shapes and connector lines. term projectuseful toolspiktochart.comgrid lined templatesresize images proportionallyeasy to align graphical elements term projectuseful toolsinfogr.amwide variety of graphs, charts and mapsmore than chart typesbuilt-in spreadsheet for easy data editingadding info-graphics to presentations or email to colleagues, sharing and embed features. term projectuseful toolsvisual.lywith project timeline componentdiscover info-graphics and favorites from other userspreplanned process support on time and budget term projectexamples south china morning post, feb. , .title: where the money goes term projectexamples south china morning post, feb. , .title: where the money goes term projectexamples wealth inequality in americathe visualization work reported that the top wealthiest % possess % of the nations wealth; the bottom % own %; similarly, but later, the media reported, the "richest percent in the united states now own more wealth than the bottom percent". term projectexamples wealth inequality in america term projectexamples new report visualizes cultural history through big data -see more at:digital art history project draws on getty vocabulary data to map the migration of artists across , years term projectexamples new report visualizes cultural history through big data term projectexamples women' rights country by country interactivewhich countries have laws preventing violence? which legislate for gender equality? and which countries allow abortion? term projectexamples term projectexampleshow birth year influences political views term projectexamples term projectin your results of visualization:data visualizations can be shown via different mediums, such as video, poster, software outcomesapart from graphs, you also need to do some analysis and tell the story. this means that texts will also be necessary. term projectin your final presentation:prepare the ppt slides that show your design workflow (purpose, scope, methods, data, analyses, findings, results, and intended messages).articulate the source from which you get the data sets used in your project.use slide to show your groups division of labor.apart from your ppts for the final submission, you also need to show the results of visualizationviadifferent medium (.., video, poster, software outcomes, etc.)show us how you have made your project. term projectin your final submission:noneeds to write paper that describes every step and result of what you have done.deliverables:ppt+visualizationoutcomes(.., links, texts, images, animations)+data setsdue:december , , : pmwhere to submit:canvasassignmentterm project 03in-class exam part three time for exercise!
week : part 1architecture:the tea garden not simply nature or self-createdbut nature crafted by man belongs to the realm of architecture, nature as an art formchinese gardens (attached to imperial palaces) hunting groundsjapan beauty in the perfection of the man-made typefollow the chinese principles of yin and yang in the quest for the perfect fusionjapanese sense of beauty nitschke () -1185the first halfjapanese re-interpretation of chinese culturethe second halfcomplete assimilation + japanizationsino-japanese geomancybased on holistic view of the cosmos; man is seen as an integral part of nature and its energy fieldsit correlates geophysical factors and astral phenomenamovements of the stars, solstices, lunar phases with the psychosomatic welfare of the human beingthe heian period nitschke () condensed model of the chinese universe correlating phenomena of time and space occurring in outer nature and inner psychea gepmancers compass nitschke () auspicious and inauspicious sites along winding river or garden streamwhere will you build your house? belly of the dragonnitschke () modelled their own gardens on those of the imperial palace based on the chinese design.chinese fashions nitschke ()early shinden- style of palace new asymmetric design in the late heian era nitschke ()reconstruction of two noble residences, new tendency towards asymmetric design palaces - asymmetrical the overall composition gardens featuring pond with one or more islands, in accordance with ancient geomantic rulestosanjo-den palace garden:the design framework of armchairevolution in shinden-style nitschke () nitschke () gardens within temples of pure land buddhismnitschke () garden scholar, hayakawa: the perfect expression of the heian sense of aestheticism loraine kuck: ladies whose rooms faced these small courts were often called by the name of the flower dominating them appears in the famous tale of genjithe sense of elegant and tranquility nitschke () elegant and colorfulthe festivities held within them were infused with joyous, light-hearted spiritthey inspired their visitors to express their love of nature through poetry and music nitschke () this was akikonomus poem, presented with the gift: your garden quietly awaits the spring. permit the winds to bring touch of autumn. murasaki shikibu: the tale of genji, chapter sakuteiki (), literally,records of garden making/contemporary rules of garden-making (est. late 11th century)with architectural details within the context of the shinden-style palacefeatures:.design the pond with respect to its position in the land2.consider the atmosphere3.think of the mountains and waters of living nature and reflect constantly upon such settings4.not just blindly copying the old styles, but design in version according to ones own taste5.rocks should be erected and harmoniously interrelatedsakutei-ki: the classic of garden-making nitschke () the japanese gardens source: mins - / - the second large wave of chinese influence chinese zen buddhismthe kamakura and muromachi era nitschke () enlightenment power from oneself (ji-riki)meditation no mind / on thought.development of the zen buddhism in japanrinzai sect of zen buddhism founded in japan by eisai nitschke () plan of saiho-ji temple nitschke () sai-ho-ji templegolden pond and meditation stone rock arrangementsevidence of the foreign influence of the artistic techniques of the song dynastypond: smaller tenryu-ji:the temple of the heavenly dragon nitschke () crane stonecarp stone also influenced by the landscape painting of song china nitschke () ginkaku-ji (gold pavilion temple) marked the mature form of garden design of the late muromachi era / kare-sansui (withered landscape special prototype of garden design in this period) nitschke () the ryoan-ji kare-sansui garden: rocks grouped into three compositions of , , 3positioned within an area of raked sand(zen design) / rules of using odd number / secret geometry the sense of austere elegance (yugen) and the beauty of empty space (yohaku no bi) nitschke () - / -1868the rise of daimyo lords /nobunaga, hideyoshi and ieyasu / eager to display their individuality and creativity / new castles / used large rocks in the pond gardens / powerful, energetic and three dimensionalshuko, joo and rikyu / the roji (dewy path) along with the development of the soan (grass-thatched hut)azuchi momoyama and early edo era nitschke () the historical significance of azuchi momoyama period (-)use of gardens in order to display wealthcastle-palaces became the new centres of the momoyama culture the rustic tea garden along with the development of wabi-cha nitschke () -karikomi (method of cutting the plants)! shrubs and bushes clipped into specific shapestraditional aspect of japanese garden but emerged again as primary feature in this periodthe combination of kare-sansui (withered landscape) and -karikomi nitschke () the tea garden (roji):an example of fushinan (kyoto) nitschke () roji-mon () small gate house nitschke () soto-koshikake () (outer waiting booth) nitschke () the host would clean and moisten these stonesinventor unknownpractical functions?ruin the delicate mossspecial experienceincrease visitors consciousnessstepping stones or tobi0ishi nitschke () tobishishi and nobedanthe tea garden path is made of tobiishi (stepping stones) and nobedan (long slabs of stone) shitabara setchin () small toilet nitschke () tsukubai () water basin andnaka-kuguri () the middle crawl-through gate nitschke () outer oriji (tea garden)to be continued rikyu fathered the sukiya design for the colored shoin-style in hideyoshis juraku-dai palace () in kyotothe sukiya stylea building of refined taste nitschke () sukiya architecture: visitors are enveloped within man-made environment in which the right angle is played against the natural formnitschke ()sukiya, recognized as the inspiration for style of residential architecture which largely remained the domain of the wealthy and elite and importantly, as rare opportunity for individualistic design in the tradition of japanese architecture.but the sukiya tea-house, commonly characterized as rustic hermitage or hut and is recognized primarily as manifestation of the informal japanese zen buddhist tea ceremony.the term first emerged in the late 16th century corresponding with the development of the decisive roji-soan form of tea ceremony attributed to sen no rikyu.details, see walker () wabi: implying taste for the ordinary, the simple, the common, the modest, the rusticas small as possible restraint in every respectcolors are subdued decorative utensils reduced to minimumconnected to the concept of sabi (the love for the withered)the sense of beauty:wabi (restraint and poverty) nitschke () oribeunlike rikyu, oribe was uninterested in the mere imitation of natures mode of operation. he would sweep away any leaves that fell in his garden and spread the ground evenly with pine needles.mixing of natural and dressed stones in pathways, and in his carpeting of the outer roji with bluish pebbles from the oceansuki personal preference and taste nitschke () stone lanternwater basinused in shrines and templesnew significance in the tea gardensakui - creativity and originality nitschke () week : part 2architecture:the inner tea garden and the tea room nitschke () square welli baiken-mon (plum-viewing gate) uchikoshikake (inner bench seat) kazari setchin (decorative toilet) stone lanternm tsukubai (stone basin) nijiri-guchi (crawl through gate/entrance) the middle gate ()baiken-mon (plum viewing gate) chumonthe middle gatethe tea room (chashitsu) and the tea garden (roji) form single unit for the purpose of holding tea gathering. in order to enter this world of play which transcends the ordinary world, the guests: walk through the refreshing landscape of the tea garden and pass through the middle gatethe gate at the boundary between the inner and outer roji sen & sen, decorative toilet () tsukubai ()washing their hands and month at the tsukubai (stone wash basin) from right to left:stone for portable candle-standfront stone on which to stoop and use the basinstone for hot-water bucketsen & sen, litter hole (chiri-ana)barrier-keeper stone (sekimori-ishi)chiri-ana and sekimori-ishi sen & sen, the development of different tea rooms and their names isozaki, ando & fujimori, 2007tocha activities (14th~15th centuries) denchu no chasitting on tatami in splendid room, host and guests appreciated the various art objects while servant served them tea in separate room source: ando & fujimori, shoin style (hiroma) during the muromachi period, shinden-style (heian) evloved into shoin-style. it is with this style that rooms first appeared (fujimori, ). () source: tale of genji painting in nezu museum shoin-zukuri (/style): residential architecture style that emerged during the mid-muromachi period (the late 15th century)..notable for the presence of an alcove (tokonoma).staggered shelves (chigaidama). built-in desk (tsuke-shoin)translucent screens in the outside wall to let in lightcoalesced into solemn and refined style that reflected the owners wealth and statusshoin-zukuri (/sytle) isozaki, ando & fujimori, doujinsai (kyoto) dojinsai (. mats)built est. () 15th centuryor named as mountain hut in the city tocha: entertainmentiori: quiet and solitary teanew direction in japanese tea cultureorigin: monk or former government official was likely man of high cultural refinement/ chose to spend his life in mountain hermitbut they did not really abandon the city / sought different and distant perspective on the world by looking at it from afarseclusion of oneselfthe development of iori/hermitagesolitary tea isozaki, ando & fujimori, constructed yojohan (. mats tea room) separate from his main house, using miscellaneous lumber and thatched roof in imitation of rural folkhouse.like farmers hutreflect simple, plain and undecorated spiritimperfect and incompletealso called sukiya (refined new design)tanaka joo sen & sen, establishment of soan style the original tea room tatami mats ! changed to . tatami mats or smaller nakamura, tokonoma(the alcove)the first thing guests look at when they enter tea room. hanging scrolls and flower containers are displayed in the alcove of the tea room reflecting the hosts message to the guests. sen & sen, the different settings according to seasons winter and summer settings in order to enhance the intimacy between the host and guest, the room was made smaller than the . and rooms of or tatami were built.tatami was also called daime sen rikyusen & sen, sanjo-daime space (3mats space) = mats3 mats + small matisozaki, ando & fujimori, tai-an by rikyu fushin-an (kyoto) semi-gabled style (roof)sen & sen, fushin-an (.->/ mats) called the middle post, is the central feature of daime-style tea roomformed one of the soan charactersen & sen, this style emerged in reaction to the formalized and lavishly appointed shoin-zukuri residential style.sukiya residences are notable for eschewing an emphasis on status and formality for rustic, almost severe simplicity that suggests connection to the tea house architecturesoan / sukiya-zukuri (/style) isozaki, ando & fujimori, natural materialsunlike an ordinary living space, the tea room is small with low roof and is slightly dark. it is made very simply of natural materials, with log pillars and clay walls. sen & sen, other famous soan tea rooms hassho-an (nara) source: eight-window ( mats)by furuda oribe it is famous teahouse designed with the multiple-window style favored by the edo-period tea connoisseur furuta oribe (). source: shokin-tei in katsura imperial villa thekatsura imperial villa(katsura riky) the japanese gardens source: last mins: : fujimori, . (). introduction: the development of the tea room and its meaning in architecture. in . isozaki, . ando, and . fujimori (eds.) the contemporary tea house: japans top architects redefine tradition. kyoto: kodansha.isozaki, ., ando, ., & fujimori, . (). (eds.) the contemporary tea house: japans top architects redefine tradition. kyoto: kodansha.(nakamura masao)nitschke, . williams . trans. (). japanese gardens. koln: taschen.sen, . & sen . (). urasenke chado textbook. kyoto: tankosha.walker, . . (). shoko-ken: late medieval daime sukiya style japanese tea-house. ny: routedge.cited references fujimori, . (). introduction: the development of the tea room and its meaning in architecture. in . isozaki, . ando, and . fujimori (eds.) the contemporary tea house: japans top architects redefine tradition, pp. -. kyoto: kodansha.(see chapter ) fujimori, . (). the tea room: architecture writ small. in . isozaki, . ando, and . fujimori (eds.) the contemporary tea house: japans top architects redefine tradition, pp. -. kyoto: kodansha.(see chapter , pp. - only) nitschke, . williams . trans. (). japanese gardens. koln: taschen.(see pp. -)sen, . & sen . (). urasenke chado textbook. kyoto: tankosha.(see chapters and , pp. -)weekly readings (weeks -) chen, . . cluster analysis comparison of selected traditional japanese gardens, classical chinese gardens and modern chinese gardens. unpublished master thesis. michigan state university.available at the cityu library catalog -thesisother readings see canvas modules new online weedly readings
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow iv & building your visualization iii & createcalculationsdr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow iv building your visualization iii 02start your visualization 01design workflow iv part one design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions. design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe second stage: giving all the things we could show, what will we show? design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethere are two distinct phases within the four stages: the first three are considered the hidden thinking phase/preparatory stages; the second phase design thinking is concerned with developing your design solution.the design phase will focus on five layers of visualization design: data representation, interactivity, annotation, color and composition.lets start with the first layer: data representation. design workflowdata representation-data encoding design workflowdata representation-data encoding design workflowdata representation-data encodingthe way our audience read our visualization work:as viewers, when we are perceiving visualization of data, we are decoding various visual properties such as size, position and color to understand the quantitative and categorical values represented. what is data encoding:as designers, we are doing the reverse -associating the data with the array of different visual properties. this is termed encoding and is the fundamental basis of any chart-based data representation. design workflowdata representation-data encodingvarious visual properties design workflowdata representation-data encodingwhat are the array of different visual properties ingredients that make up the recipes of chart types? every chart is comprised of combination of marks and attributes. design workflowdata representation-data encodingattributes are the visual properties of each mark that are varied to represent associated data values. design workflowdata representation-data encodingattributes are the visual properties of each mark that are varied to represent associated data values. design workflowdata representation-data encodingquantitative attributes: position along scale is used to indicate quantitative value.size (length, area, volume) is used to represent quantitative values based on proportional scales where the larger the size of the mark, the larger the quantity.variation in the size of angle forms the basis of pie chart sectors representing parts-of--whole quantitative values. the larger the angle, the larger the proportion. design workflowdata representation-data encodingquantitative attributes: the quantity of repeated set of point marks.variation in pattern density or difference in pattern texture can be used to represent quantitative values. typically, the greater the saturation, the higher the quantity.typically, the darker the saturation, the higher the quantity. design workflowdata representation-data encodingcategorical attributes: symbols or icons are generally used with point markers to indicate categorical association.color hue is typically used for distinguishing different categorical data values, but can also be used in conjunction with other color properties to represent certain quantitative scales. design workflowdata representation-data encodingrelational attributes: connection indicates relationship between two nodes. sometimes arrows may be added to indicate direction of relationship, but largely it is just about the presence or absence of connection.containment is way of indicating grouping relationship between categories that belong to related hierarchical parent category. design workflowdata representation-data encoding design workflowdata representation-data encoding design workflowdata representation-data encodingmarks are visible placeholders that represent an itemor instance of data. there is small range of different mark types but the variation of their deployment is far wider.attributes are the visual property variations of these marks to represent the values of the data items. there are far more attributes to consider and many ways of associating multiple attributes to individual marks. design workflowdata representation-data encodingmarks the point mark has no variation (constant) in the spatial dimension. it is largely placeholder commonly used to represent quantity through position on scale, forming the basis of, for example, scatter plots.the line mark has one (linear) spatial dimension. it is commonly used to represent quantitative value through variation in size, forming the basis of, for example, the bar chart. design workflowdata representation-data encodingmarks the area mark has two (quadratic) spatial dimensions. it is commonly used to represent quantitative value through variation in size and position, forming the basis of, for example, bubble plots.the form mark has three (cubic) spatial dimension. it might be used to represent quantitative value through variation in size (specifically, through volume), forming the basis of, for example, 3d proportional shape chart. design workflowdata representation-data encodingmarks design workflowdata representation-data encoding design workflowdata representation-data encoding this shopping cart visualization represents how much of lifes necessities welfare recipient can afford each day. design workflowdata representation-data encodingusually, chart employs different attributes& marks. global club soccer rankings | fivethirtyeight design workflowdata representation-data encodingusually, chart employs different attributes& marks. design workflowdata representation-data encodingusually, chart employs different attributes& marks. analysis of: public sector capital expenditure on services by function of the uk government during / design workflowdata representation-data encodingusually, chart employs different attributes& marks. design workflowdata representation: what influences your choice?there are so many different charting possibilities. several main factors that influence your choices, informed by the work weve undertaken in the three preparatory stages of the design workflow (formulating your brief, working with data and establishing your editorial thinking). the principles for good visualization also work here. design workflowdata representation: what influences your choice?formulating your briefskills and resourceswhat charts can you make and how efficiently? from the definitions across the purpose map, what tone did you determine this project might demonstrate? the chartmakerdirectory provides growing, partly crowd-sourced reference to help understand which charts can be made in which tools, which tools make which charts and how. design workflowdata representation: what influences your choice?formulating your brief the chartmakerdirectory (visualisingdata.com) design workflowdata representation: what influences your choice?formulating your brief design workflowdata representation: what influences your choice?working with datawhat is the shape of the data and how might that impact on your chart design?have you already used chart type to explore your data that might prove to be the best way to communicate it to others? design workflowdata representation: what influences your choice?establishing your editorial thinkingwhat is the specific angle of the enquiry that you want to portray visually?is it relevant and representative of the most interesting analysis of your data? 02building your visualization iii part two comparing categoriestimedistributionbuilding your visualization geospatialpart-to-wholequalitativerelationship geospatial plotting geographic data may mean adding color to geographic areas like states or countries, or adding circles, squares, lines, or other shapes on top of geographic map.challenges and alternatives geospatial geospatial the challenges of mapsthe size of geographic area may not correspond to the importance of the data value.is map truly the best way to present geographic data? with maps, we should always take step back and consider whether it is the right visualization choice.which kind of map you use to visualize your data will depend on: how important are the geographic patterns and how important is it for your reader to see familiar map? geospatial choropleth mapit uses colors, shades, or patterns on geographic units to show proportionate quantities and magnitudes. diverging color palette should be avoided unless we are comparing something above and below some midpoint number. geospatial choropleth map diverging color palette should be avoided unless we are comparing something above and below some midpoint number.it may be difficult to find smaller countries like luxembourg. geospatial choosing the projectionthe world is globe, but maps are flat. mapmaker must choose map projection to transform the worlds sphere into - plane.all maps distort the surface of the planet to some degree and there is considerable debate about which projection does the best job depicting the earth in two dimensions. geospatial choosing the projectionmercator projectionused as the default in many data visualization tools like tableau.the mercator projection distorts the size of objects as the latitude increases from the equator to the north and south poles. geospatial choosing the projectionmercator projection geospatial choosing the projectionmercator projection geospatial choosing the projectionmercator projection geospatial choosing the binsthe choice of intervals, or bins, will shade the geographic units. placing data into discrete categories is an aggregation problem.by combining several states or countries into single bin, we dont know how different those units are from one another. geospatial choosing the binsno bin. geospatial choosing the binsequal interval bins. geospatial choosing the binsdata distribution bins...: number of observations geospatial choosing the binsarbitrary bins geospatial alternativecartograma cartogram reshapes geographic areas based on their values.on one hand, these adjustments more accurately visualize the data because cartograms correlate the data and the geographic size.one the other hand, these graphs are not like the standard maps that we know and recognize. geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativecartogram geospatial alternativeproportional symbol and dot density mapscolor and size are not the only encoding techniques we can use to visualize data on map.different shapes and objectslines, arrows, points, circles, icons, even small compact bar graphs and pie chartscan all be placed on map. geospatial alternativeproportional symbol and dot density maps geospatial alternativeproportional symbol and dot density maps geospatial flow maps as way to visualize geographic data. geospatial maps may not be the best choice. example: washington post story examined the relationship between rates of suicide and gun ownership. geospatial maps may not be the best choice. example: washington post story examined the relationship between rates of suicide and gun ownership. geospatial conclusion:when working with geographic data, your instinct may be to create map. but take moment to consider: is map the best way to present your data?are there clear geographic patterns to be seen in the data? if not, then the map may not actually help the reader see your point. 03start your visualization part three creating calculationsaggregationaggregation defines how values are expressed.supported aggregation types include:sum; average; count; minimum; maximum; percentiles; sd; variance creating calculationswhat are calculated fields and table calculations?calculated fields and table calculations allow you to add new data to your workbookcalculated fields are defined by entering formula into formula editing dialog box. the sum aggregation function in front of each field name tells the source database creating calculationshow do calculated fields work?calculated fields are normally executed at the databaselevel, where the heavy-lifting happens is dependent on the type of functions utilized in the formula.functions: including aggregate, number, string, data, type conversion, logical, user, and table calculation typesfields: selected from the data sourceoperators: for math and comparison of values, dates, and text creating calculationshow do calculated fields work?calculated fields are normally executed at the databaselevel, where the heavy-lifting happens is dependent on the type of functions utilized in the formula.operational elements: can be added within the formula dialog box including:parameters: for creating formula variables that are accessible to information consumerscomments: for documenting formula syntax and notes within the formula dialog box creating calculationscreating calculated fields creating calculationscreating calculated fields creating calculationsad hoc calculations creating calculationshow do table calculations work?quick table calculations are provided for: creating calculationsusing the calculation editor to build calculated fields creating calculationsdetecting formula errors creating calculationsnaming an ad hoc calculated fields creating calculationsediting table calculations to suit your purposetable calculations require selections of following optionscalculation typesummarize values using: sum, average, median (these will change depending on the content of your source)running along: defines the direction and the scope of the table calculation (table across, table down, and so on) creating calculationsediting table calculations to suit your purposetable calculations require selections of following options creating calculationsediting table calculations to suit your purposesecondary table calculations creating calculationscreate bins creating calculationsdefining parameter for bins size of bins. creating calculationscreate reference line creating calculationsdefining parameter for reference line position of the reference line. creating calculationsdefining parameter for reference line creating calculationswhat are advanced parameters ?creating advanced parameter controls requires three or four steps:.create the parameter control2.expose the parameter control on the desktop3.use the parameter in calculated field (optional).use the calculated field in the view creating calculationswhat are advanced parameters ? creating calculationswhat are advanced parameters ?)create parameter controlright-click in blank area list names of the measures/variables. creating calculationswhat are advanced parameters ?) expose the parameter control on the desktopright-click on the parameter creating calculationswhat are advanced parameters ?) use the parameter in calculated field (optional)calculate new calculated fields to connect our parameter with the different measures. creating calculationswhat are advanced parameters ?) use the calculated field in the view parameter & the calculated field time for exercise!
understanding problems of vision expression . visual bias in daily life/ . what stands out easily? / .problem of understanding / .reasons that shaped misunderstanding / .pros and cons of misunderstanding . visual bias in daily lifevisual bias is common. the bias here are not bias towards politics, sexuality or any personal judgement. bias can be referred to our assymetrical distinction between two different objects. like gestalt perception theory that was covered before, such visual bias is vital to us because it helps us to distinguish among objects and let us have prompt action to go against (or for) something happened.however, why don' we call it as "visual balance" instead of "visual bias"? the judgment can be wrong due to misunderstanding or misinterpretation from the incomplete signals. bias is quick judgment based on the conventions and experience of person. and it is sign from the percepts, in other words, visual bias is the sign that make everyone see things easily but differently. . what stands out easily? . color: everyone knows color makes difference but not much discussion in how we perceive color. our interest in color has been conceptualized since we are infants. when we think about banana or apple, we directly visualize them in mind with the color of yellow and red. when we think about watermelon, the more complex color codes are involved (green + red + some white). so we are naturally trained to perceive the objects with colors. (dreams are said to be coloured) one might think that the colorful objects would be easily seen but it only works in comparing with colorless objects. for instance, colorful parrot is never as eye-catching as completely blue frog. same principle can be applied in the color of blood. when we observe the red uid owing, we either think it is blood or paints. whereas the true understanding needs to be comprehended with its context, the immediate association of blood or paints (both are unusual) is resulted but may not be the truth. on the contrary, when we observe the colorful liquid in bottled drink, it makes everyone doubt what are the contents. as there is too much possibilities. the multiple color combination is never an unity: each color cannot stand out with its own identity and do not inform us well of what it is. .shape: very simple principle lies," change nothing when the others change, so that you would be different." . orientation: the two most conventional visual axes are no doubt the horizontal and the vertical. any diagonal at an angle would be considered as the visual break for the two axes. but when the diagonal number increases, it becomes dominant and serve similar property with the two axes. now the diagonal becomes the vertical and the horizontal. so one reminder about breaking the orientation: use diagonal break with limit, and not to over-done it. for the first sight of the picture above,pure colors stand out first, distinguish the center alone. call "an apple". stimulatedred shape+ selection the turnability of the image. visual detection eld channel source' knowledge baseinformation sourcetransmitter receiver destinationdestination' knowledge base source (.. radio)original message trasmitted signalreceived signalreceived messaged. motion: the movement of object is equals to the action of objects. without the indication of action, there is no real visual clues of movement. the term "motion picture" is referred to the movement of lm as if the term "emotion" is referred to the ow of feeling. without action, motion is nothing. the paradox of "motion in still picture" lies on the question of how the objects moved in the picture (or better refer as "suppose to move"in the next moment of the picture). to answer that, one must know the distinction between static and stillness. the difference lies on the image' turnability. image (object) with high turnability means having high tendency to move, like the capture of race. on the other hand, low turnability do not only infer the lack of movement but also its concealment by the front object in the picture. . spatial grouping: to tell the difference between two or few objects is always easy while anyone would nd it dif cult to describe bee from within the beehive. our perception of image is never bounded due to the limited detection eld. when we look at enormous object that cannot be captured, our eld detection range would be adjusted to observe smaller area as to try "grouping" the multiple sets of information we see in consecutive moments. in cinema, the image of the characters' face is times bigger than reality. that drives audience to observe more closely, shifting the visual eld to the facial expression and elements of the face. (for close-up view, attention focused on the winkles and skin texture) .problem of understanding: the ow of understanding is as follows: - source' knowledge base; -information source; -trasmitter ; -channel; -receiver; -destination; -destination knowledge base.what stands out easily? the first truth in this mechanism is that the message pass from one side to another must be understandable with both parties' and within the knowledge base of both. the ows among points to can happen even without really understanding the meaning of the message. it gives reason why sometimes people can misunderstand even though they heard what the others say. things gone wrong from steps -. along with choosing the right media (point ), the action taken in points and (sender' and receiver' action) heavily influence the message delivery. the improper use from point - could in uence the transfer of message' meaning to point (destination). . linguistic: due to the structural and conventional usage, it seldom creates misunderstanding when words are used in sentence (if the sender and receiver learnt the system properly). . modern art: the difference between classical and modern art lies within the classical can be appreciated with its craftsmanship and tales of ancient characters. whereas modern art is intentionally "ugly" or "imperfect", making realization of object that with barely no aesthetic merit, as to evoke meanings and thought from the public (intellectuals). . idea(marriage): idea is the subject that always mixed up with concept. by comparing the idea and concepts in terms of marriage, two can be clearly shown. idea is limited but concepts are variant. the term marriage is an idea. just like the question goes, "what is good in marriage?"the question focused on the quality of the marriage without defining what is marriage. misunderstanding would be resulted if transmitter' and receiver' cencept of an idea are different. . environment(aura): environment itself doesn' speak. any adjective term like beautiful, comfortable or quiet are only described by human, but not an objective truth. it is the feeling (or perception) of the receiver. place can be paradise to you but hell to the others. . style (surrealism): the term style is always used to describe phenomena which share similar principle or intent. like the common term "modern" for today has no special meaning other than "new" to the public. this phenomenon defies the original purpose of style for classifying. the misunderstanding of style makes the word originally representative becomes functionless. . expression (on drawing): the expression of drawing is always driving towards creativity than nothingness. psycho-analysis on infant/ toddle' drawings usually indicate the meaning behind the abstract drawing. by considering the immature drawing skill from the infants / toddlers, we cannot expect them to conciously convey meaning through drawing, the only conclusion we may draw from these analysis would be the hidden meaning embedded in the drawings. apart from reproducing the drawing like schoolwork assignment, all drawings are the ways of expression. because the drawing is not an annotated diagram, it remains speculative and open to interpretation. misunderstandings are welcomed and inevitable.example : times ies like an arrow fruit ies like banana. " do ."problem of understanding media .writingii.sound iii.imageiv.writing image (.. magazine).writing sound (.. song)vi.sound imagepros versatile, deliver with the help of grammar and imaginativeexperience on pitch and frequency focus on graphic representationillustrative and annotated easy to associate (with lyrics)speculativecons limited source for imagination and time-consumingcan be disturbing with the unknown sourcelow comprehension for audienceweaken the power of the image limit the imagination from sound can be disturbing and mysterious nation' pridefood and money4.reasons that shaped misunderstanding: . language: apart from the grammatical barrier, all languages made up of description (object, subject and action), decoration (adjective) and judgement ( to be or not to be) could be sources of mis-understanding as they are contextural or cultural related. .symbol(cultural): since people in specific region (like country) have their own habitat and niche, their behaviors would be shaped by the region' property as well as the chance of survival. for example, rice plantation in japan are not only food and money for them, but also sign of naturalism and country' pride. the symbol can certainly be compared to the sacred zone (territoriality) for one person. it is hardly accessed and devalued by other reasons or considerations. . symbol(personal): the symbol in personal level is highly concerned with belief. once you believe in something, others cannot use logic to explain your action or inaction . the belief will turn every irrationality into rationale. . symbol(religion): thanks to the passion of joan of arc, we knew insistence (of religious) can lead to death. .pros and cons of misunderstanding: reasons that shaped misunderstanding
hardware hacking [sm3610] sema / dr alvaro cassinelli (thu)office: m6028email: acassine@cityu.edu.hklecture 2arduino codingdigital /oserial monitor ) why embedded software? we cannot change or controlthe behaviour of this.... we can add delays, remember, sense things and react accordingly, talk to the computer, etc!the power of microcontroller ...the alternative would be very complicated and specialized circuitry! () apollo guidance computerfrequency: mhzmemory: 4kb ram / 74kb romports: dsky (input/output), imu, hand controller, rendezvous radar (cm), landing radar (lm), telemetry receiver, engine command, reaction control systempower: wweight: kgprice: . usd() arduino unofrequency: mhzmemory: 2kb sram / 32kb flash / 1kb eepromports: general purpose input/outputspower:200mw(in sleep mode it is . mw)weight: 23gprice: usdmicrocontrollers: putting things in perspective big computer has display, hard disk, complex peripheralsvs. ... microcontroller has input/output pins(everything in single chip). real timelow power (lower speed)easy to embed in system microcontroller is an embedded dedicated computerto control hardware systems... tiny computer? atmel atmega328p microcontroller. ...they are everywhere! arduino uno is justonemicrocontroller developmentboardamong thousands, built aroundtheon theatmel atmega328p microcontroller. microcontroller development boards what is arduino? (and arduino compatible development boards)development platform (microcontroller with exposed pins, power supply, etc.)arduino programming framework (api, /++ libraries)an editor / compiler / uploader (ide) +open source and open hardware, diy, makers, forums, fablabs, etc. the core of the classic arduino: atmega8 / / 328p the board powers the micro and exposes its pins: / pins are reconfigurable by programming (.., we can assign the same pin to input or output function )some pins have different capabilities (.., pwm, serial communication)pin number: check the arduino reference for the detail (digital: , , , analog: a0, a1, a2) usb power(5v)dc powerjack( -12v) outputvin( 12v) inputinput values: high (> 3v)or low(< .5v)(.5v < input < .0v) input value is the same as previous value (arduino uno)output values:high(5v) or low(0v) input: continuous voltage (from to 5v) arduino reads input as discrete number from (0v) to (5v)digitaloutput analog arduino does not really have analog output.but it can simulateit using pulse width modulation pwm (next week) 5v0v ) first steps: loading code(aka flashing the firmware) arduino ide and programminglogin your macprepare your course material kit (plastic box one)take out arduino board and usb-cablefirstuse breadboard, leds, switches & resistors laterhands on or arduino integrated developmentenvironmentdownload from arduino website ( on your computer an ide is: . text editor to write your code2. compiler to prepare the firmware3.an uploader to flash the firmware on your arduino memory. the editor:writing your code the editor:save/load files 18compiling and flashing the program compile(check compile errors without uploading after choosing the right microcontroller and framework)flashingafter choosing the usb/serial port (pressing this button also compiles before flashing) settingup the programming environment ) choose the right board2) connect the arduino and choose the right usb port structure of an arduino sketch (similar to processing) start setup() loop()setup code here -runs only once: (similar to setup() in processing)main code here -runs forever in loop(similar to draw() in processing)-you need both setup() and loop() function to run the code-you can define other functions by yourself.repeatforever helloworld! to computer structure of an arduino "sketch" find many basic examples in the examples menu: ) review: programming concepts ) variables ) data types ) variable scope: visibility of variable in program variable visibility and the declared locationglobal variable: visible to any function if declared before setup() or outside any function local variable:if declared-inside function { }: only visible inside the function { } -inside for-loop { }: only visible inside the for-loop { } ) arrays (indexed containers ) comparison and logical operators if (...) {}else{} loops(repeat things) while loop example usageexample usage(.., > )declare loop counter variabletest conditioninitialize increment counter (*)(or decrement) for loop ++ : = + 1x--: = -1int timer = ; // declare variable timerwhile (timer> ) {// test if timer is greater than 0print (timer); // prints current timer;timer--; // count down by }blinks led timesprint countdown timer from to serial plotter hello... computer (not yet the real world)serial monitor flash the code: write and upload the code (or find in the examples) and upload... open the serial monitor and select the right baud rate you should be greeted like this: what the code means? what if you move some linesinto the loop(){...} ? counting (once) // put your code here (will be repeated indefinitely) nested loop ( loopinside of another loop) ) physical hello world = microcontroller alone cannot do much... interfacing with an analogworld-sensors (switch, light...)-actuators (lamps, speakers, motors...)power-battery, solar cell, dynamo...enhanced functions:-more memory and speed-real time clock,-wireless communication (wifi, gps, gsm)-even face recognition! arduino eyes, voice, hands, legs: inputs and outputs inputinputis discrete voltage ( or5v)arduino convert this to or (code)value to output is booleanoutputis discrete voltage ( or 5v)input is continuous voltage ( to 5v) arduino convert these values into number from to 1023digitaloutputanalog ...arduino does not really have analog output, but it can simulate it using pulse wave modulation(later)elemental / concepts arduino hello world : blinking led (this simple example is in the examples menu) programming general purpose / pins (gpio) note: led_builtin = digital / pins(pin#: ) analog input pins(pin#: a0 a5)also works as digital / pins-initialize pin# as the output or input pindigitalwrite(pin#, high / low);outputshigh(5v)or low(0v)atpin#.pinmode(pin#, output / input); you can use variable name:int ledpin= ; pinmode(ledpin, output);digitalwrite(ledpin, high); change the codeto blink the external led on pin : gndpin12(,5v)-+use arduino pin12 output (0v/5v) -connect long lead of led to pin (+polarity)-connect resistor (1kor220 ohm) to led in series ..note: no need to use resistor here (max current sourcing: 40ma) can you change the blinking speed?make it blink times per second for example ?simple timing control: delay(); this the arduino to do nothing for milliseconds (1sec) very useful for debugging! ) putting all together: first physical computing project 46sensor/actuatorscircuitembedded code simplified schematicsschematicsrapid prototyping stages prototyping board (real)prototyping board (schematics) soldered printed circuit board (pcb) the handy breadboardand jumpers! note: how to power the breadboard?from battery (careful with the voltage!)from an usbcable (5v) and power bank, or computer portfrom an usb-powered arduino board (that will be the usual way) ) simple digital input: led and momentary switchpinmode(switchpin, input/ input_pullup); digitalread(switchpin); connect the switch: one pin connected to gndthe other to one digital pin but... what happens when you dont press the switch?? the pin is then floating the problem of floating input gnd5v positive logic (high)negative logic (low) closed gnd5v ??open pull up and pull-down resistors pull-up resistors are used in electronic logic circuits to ensure that inputs to the arduino settle at expected logic levels if external devices are disconnected or high-impedance.just because you have nothing at all connected to an input pin doesn' mean it is logical zero! pull-down resistor works in the same way but is connected to ground. it holds the logic signal near zero volts when no other active device is connected. 10k resistor is good value for pullup or pulldown resistor for arduino.arduino has internal pull-up resistors that can be activated by software.pinmode(pin, input_pullup)inverted logicswitches: the bouncing problem! (later) so, in setup all you need to do: pinmode(pinswitch, input_pullup); this activates the arduino internal pull-up resistors: note:you must connect the switch to gnd (otherwise, you need pull-down switches)the logic will be negative (pressing the switch will read low) code1: switch_led.inonote the use of:the comparison operators (==, !=, >, <, >=, <=)theyreturn trueor falsethe if {...}else{...} structurethe problem with floating input...try: print pressed in the serial monitor. notice the problem if no delay(...) this is build-in led connected to pin 13while pressing down the button, led is on, otherwise it is off important note: led on any digital output the led is diode. it needs ~2v in the right direction to shine, and when it does, the voltage between the terminals remains at 2vit cannot take more than about 20ma (10ma is good enough). arduino digital output produces 5vwe need current limiting resistor! ohms law: = / 2v3v 5v10ma => = 3v/.01a = = 220is ok: code2: switch_toggle.ino press changes the currentstate of the led (toggles) note: the use of boolean state variablethe problem with bouncing and the need of delay (did you noted it?)try: print the timebetween two presses using the delay function try: make dynamic led pattern use the arduino to control three leds, making them flash from left to rightand left to right (continuously) ) summary(what you are already capable to do)read switches and set digital outputsyou made night rider and used button to start/stop the motion... an electronic dice/roulette!just move the light fast (small delay)press the start button, and press it again for stop.... you can created first meaningful interactive project: -segment display? -segment display is just seven leds in plastic package! same code, but you need to store patterns for each number/letter (in an array)there are librariesfor that (we will see about that soon) check the basic examples(accessible from the ide) tutorials: you already can do lot of interactive stuff, for example: simon game, wearables and interactive jewellery (recorded patterns selected by push-button, controlled by ambient noise, lighting, humidity...), fancy displays (even 3d!), interactive light sculptures, clocks, tamagochi, etc... next week: basic analog /opotentiometers, light intensity, audio level, humidity, temperature, etc... ...my safety color-thermometer ok! appendix: -sun cheong computer company limited -more nested for-loop examples sun cheong computer company limited () google map
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow iidr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow ii 02in-class exam 03start your visualization 01design workflow ii part one design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions. design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe second stage: acquiring the data, examining the data, transforming the data, and exploring the data design workflowacquiring data concerns the process of obtaining your data.there are several overlapping considerations to ensure you obtain the right data in the most efficient way: acquiring data design workflowneed: what you initially feel you might need (you might need more later)also important:when the data is available; how long it might take to find and acquire the data; is the data available now or might you have to wait for it to be completed and/or made accessible? acquiring data design workflowneed: what you initially feel you might need (you might need more later) acquiring data design workflowneed: what you initially feel you might need (you might need more later) acquiring data design workflowsource: there are naturally many places from where you might obtain your data. such as:downloading report from the web; receiving spreadsheet on an email; design survey; interviews. acquiring data design workflowmethod: the ways through which the data will be obtained. sometimes data acquisition requires more active methods. to obtain primary data: novel collection or recording processtools can naturally assist with the process of collecting data: tabula, import.io acquiring data design workflowmethod: the ways through which the data will be obtained. sometimes data acquisition requires more active methods. first-hand data gathering: acquiring data design workfloweffort: the efforts involved in acquiring data are important to consider, especially when working with data that might not already exist in convenient form. primary data gathering can be extremely time-consuming. data collected by external providers can be expensive. acquiring data design workflowhow about your group?acquiring data design workflowexamining data involves developing an intimate familiarity with the physical properties of your data, including:. data types2. shape/size3. condition4. data representativeness examining data design workflow1. data typesdefining the types of data will have huge influence on so many aspects of this workflow, such as determining:the type of exploratory data analysis you can undertake;the editorial thinking you establish;the specific chart types you might use;the color choices and layout decisions around composition. examining data design workflowexamining data design workflow1. data typesqualitative data:textualdata: word-based, including quotes, tweets, passages of scriptcategorical nominaldata: separate and group data items, such as countries, genders, teams, company names categorical ordinaldata: there exists some relationship between category values, such as likert scale in survey; golden>silver>bronze medals examining data design workflow1. data typesquantitative data:intervaldata: scaled measurements, such as temperature, or shoe sizes where the zero state does not mean there is nothing of that thing. ratio is meaningless.ratiodata: measurements or amounts like price, age, distance or duration examining data design workflow1. data types examining data design workflowtemporal data? examining data design workflowdifferent components of time can be positioned against almost all data types, depending simply on what formyour time data takes:textual: four clock in the afternoon on monday, march 2016ordinal: pm, afternoon, march, q1interval: , , 2016ratio: :00note that time-based data is separate in concern to duration data, which, while often formatted in structures such as hh:mm:ss, should be seen as ratio measure. to work with duration data, it is often useful to transform it into single units of time, such as total seconds or minutes.examining data design workflow1. data types: discrete vs continuousthis distinction is influential in how you might analyze it statically and visually.discrete data is associated with all classifying variables that have no in-between state. this applies to all qualitative data types and any quantitative values for which only whole is possible. heads or rails for coin toss; days of the week; numbers of seats in theatrecontinuous variables can hold the value of an in-between state and, in theory, could take on any value between the natural upper and lower limits if it was possible to take measurements in fine degree of detail, such as:height and weight; temperature; time examining data design workflow2. shape/sizethis concerns the quantitative properties of your data:what is the range of quantitative values minimum, maximum?what is the distribution of quantitative values the mean, median, variance?how many distinct categories are there?what are the lengths of categorical or qualitative values, in number of characters? examining data design workflow examining data lfcboombust.jpg () (visualisingdata.com) design workflow3. condition (data quality)the condition of your data will be affected by things such as gaps in the data, erroneous values, duplicate values and expired values. each of these conditions will affect not only the accuracyof the visualization but also the legitimacyof your, and your audiences, interpretation of the data portrayed. examining data design workflow3. condition examining data design workflow4. data representativenessthis is about developing thorough appreciation of what your data truly representsso you can ensure any conclusions you draw from this through your work are legitimate. why you need to clarify your data representativeness? it is reminder to share this information with your audience so they avoid forming incorrect interpretations. examining data design workflow4. data representativeness examining data design workflow4. data representativeness examining data design workflow4. data representativenessyou need to clearly state: integritywhere has it come from? who did the collection and through what means?certaintyis the data based on model? are there any underlying assumptions or uncertainties?completenessis the data sample (random or specific) or the whole? whats missing? examining data design workflowidentifying and executing approaches to refine your data so it is in an optimum state for whatever tools you will be using to analyze and visualize it. to transform the data into the way you can deal with.four steps for transforming your data: transforming data design workflow1. clean1) address any of the data condition issues. for example, if data about gender has possible values of male, male, men, man, or you should consider unifying these into single value approach. ) remove any records or fields of data that will serve no ongoing purposekeep records that you will use. transforming data design workflowclean1) address any of the data condition issues. transforming data design workflow2. convertyou may convert the data or data type into the way you prefer.examples: mr. into male, or male into 0a date field into just month and year elements transforming data design workflow3.createcreate new calculations to provide new values with which to analyze. examples: calculation: population figures into per capita values;create new groupings: decade groups for years; continent identifier to organize countries transforming data design workflow4. consolidateconsolidating data effectively revisits the data acquisition step in that this recognizes that you might benefit from obtaining more data. this might involve appending (adding more records), expanding (adding more fields), or enhancing (adding other media). transforming data design workflowtransforming data design workflowexploring dataexploratory data analysis (eda) integrates statistical methods with visual analysis to offer way of extracting deeper understanding about our subject through its data. there is no single path to undertaking this activity effectively; it requires number of different technical, practical and conceptual capabilities. design workflowexploring dataexploratory analysis should be considered as an important step for you to build capacity for in all projects. remember, there is limit to what we can expect from exploratory analysis.youmay seek to test your discoveries with your classmates. one of the by-products of exploratory analysis: the charting approach that you tested today may be useful tomorrow. design workflow 02start your visualization part two 03in-class exam part three time for exercise!
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow iii & building your visualization iidr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow iii building your visualization-time 02start your visualization 01design workflow iii part one design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions. design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe third stage: giving all the things we could show, what will we show? design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe stage is the critical bridge between your data work and your design work. design workflowwhat is editorial thinking:the essence is developing specific questions. chart is effectively visual answer to data question.before you can determine which is the best way to portray your data visually, you need to carefully determine to what question your display will attempt to provide an answer. design workflowwhat is editorial thinking:it is built on the early work in formulating your brief.the challenge here is to determine what question or what group of questions will need to be answered visually in order to collectively provide understanding about the overriding curiosity.it can be one-to-one (the question answered by one chart will provide sufficient answer to the initial curiosity), or one-to-many (the main curiosity is too broad to be answerable by just one chart/piece of analysis). design workflowwhat doesaneditordo? design workflowwhat is editorial thinking:this can be the toughest stage.there is no rule book, no procedure to follow, no always this/never that: it is all down to your judgment, which is what marks this out as an editorial activity. design workflowwhat is editorial thinking:there are three editorial perspectives underlying every chart: angle, frame, and focus.editorial perspectives provide the instructions for what chart needs to show.you will see that these terms share many characteristics with photography, and we can often think of chart as photograph of our data. design workflowwhat is editorial thinking:there are three editorial perspectives underlying each and every chart: angle, frame, and focus. design workfloweditorial thinking-angle design workfloweditorial thinking-anglethis is the angle of analysis chart provides view of. think of yourself as the photographer and your data as the subject of interest which view of that scene is most relevant or interesting to be photographed? you might only need to define one angle of analysis; you might need several it depends on how open or specific the curiosity is that you are pursuing. design workfloweditorial thinking-anglethis is the angle of analysis chart provides view of.if your audience aretourists? if your audience are investors?if your audience are scholars? design workfloweditorial thinking-anglethis is the angle of analysis chart provides view of. must be relevantin its potential interest for your audience: what does your intended audience want or need to know? what makes something relevant in your context? what do you want your audience to know?must have sufficientquantities to cover all relevant views but no more than required. design workfloweditorial thinking-framingit relates to choices about the field of view -what content is to be included in the frame of the photograph. think of this as the filter, sometimes you will want to include all data, often you will need to filter down to just display the most relevant items. so what will be included and what will be excluded from your visualization, and why? design workfloweditorial thinking-framingif price and neighborhood are your main concerns, then items related to owners, history etc. should be excluded. design workfloweditorial thinking-focusit is about emphasizing what is important in contrast to what is less important. good photograph balances light and color, illuminating elements within the frame to create depth. this depth is what creates focus -it builds visual hierarchy, dampening the less important and increasing the visual volume of the more important. if all of the data is loud none of it will be heard. design workfloweditorial thinking-focusit is about emphasizing what is important in contrast to what is less important. defining focus is not always necessary perspective to include in your thinking as it will depend on whether you actually have anything of significance or need to highlight. creating focus in your work is strong characteristic of explanatory visualizations. design workflowthe influence of editorial thinking:the three editorial perspectives can influence your choices of:data representation: the angleis what fundamentally shapes the data representation approach. in lay terms, it determines which chart type is used. the framing perspective defines what data will be included in the chosen chart. annotation: consequence of editorial thinking (focus) determining these respective patterns in the data should be emphasized to the viewer.color: the key applications of color is to support editorial salience how to emphasizecontent and direct the eye. design workflowsummary 02building your visualization part two comparing categoriestimedistributionbuilding your visualization geospatialpart-to-wholequalitativerelationship timegraphs showing changes over time.time: line chartwhat: data values are connected by lines to show values over continuous period, tracking trends and patterns.why: line chart is easy to read, clear in its representation, and easily drawn. timetime: line chart timetime: line chartseveral considerations to take into account, both aesthetic and substantive ones..there is no limit to the number of lines you plotthe key is not the sheer amount of data, yet instead the purposeof the graph and how you can focus your readers attention to it.general pattern of the entire sample vs focus of specific interests time1.there is no limit to the number of lines you plot instead of giving each line the same color saturation and thickness, we only color and thicken the lines for the united states and germany.start with gray time1.there is no limit to the number of lines you plot small multiples approacheach country has its own panel.more space for each country to provide more detail, labels, or other annotation. time2. you dont need to start the axis at zero why are bars suggested to start the axis at zero?the axis of line chart does not necessarily need to start at zero.then where should we start and end? time2. you dont need to start the axis at zero each of the four charts uses different range in the vertical axis, which affects our perception of the level and the change in spending. time2. you dont need to start the axis at zero there is no right answer to the choice of the vertical axis.the answer depends on the data and your goal.if you are telling more general story?if you need to show detailed examination?how about the bottom-left one? time2. you dont need to start the axis at zero it is worth noting that our perception of where zero lies is affected by how we draw the vertical axis. time3. beware the line-width illusionbe careful of the area between curves.with line charts, we tend to misestimatethe differences between two curves. time3. beware the line-width illusionwhat is the difference in -? time3. beware the line-width illusionhow the line-width illusion works: we tend to assess the distance between curves at the closest point rather than the vertical distance.alternative: to plot the difference time4. include data markers to make specific valuesdata markers: symbols along the line to mark specific points in the series. when: specific points to highlight, label or annotate; only have few lines or data points time4. include data markers to make specific valueschanges in the series are so subtle that the addition of the circular data markers give the lines more visual heft. time5. use visual signals for missing data at some level, there is always missing data.most data are snapshot in time, but we often treat them as continuous.we should make it clear that the data are incomplete.how: change the format of the line; not connect the points at all; place note time5. use visual signals for missing data time5. use visual signals for missing data time6. avoid dual-axis line charts problem? time6. avoid dual-axis line charts ) they are often hard to read. how to correspond lines with axes?) the gridlines may not match up.the gridline can only be associated with one axis.) mislead of focus: the point where the lines cross becomes focal point, even though it may have no real meaning.) since the vertical axis does not need to start at zero, we could arbitrarily change the dimensions of each axis to make the lines cross wherever we like. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts ) arbitrary change of the axis dimension can mislead readers about the relationshipbetween the series. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts )closely matched for few years around and 2012b)cross in the middle and the endc)intersect around and then again few years laterd)are closely related in the first half of the period but then diverge time6. avoid dual-axis line charts spurious correlations: arbitrary vertical axis scales create erroneous correlations. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts few solutions:)set the charts side by side.not everything needs to be packed in single graph. we can break things up and use small multiples approach. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts )set the charts side by side. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts )set the charts side by side.if specific point on the horizontal axis is important. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts ) calculate the change from some value.readers can see the change over time for both series and compare them along the same metric.we lose the level presentation of the data and instead present the change. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts ) calculate the change from some value. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts ) try different chart type. if showing the changes in the associations between the two series is important, try connected scatterplot.connected scatterplot: each point represents different unit of time, such as year. time6. avoid dual-axis line charts ) try different chart type. timetime: circular line chart timetime: slope charta simplified line chart, when there is no need to show all the data in your series.slope chart: just plot the change between two time periods; plot each data point on separate vertical axis and connect the two with line. timetime: slope chartit is easier to ) rank the relative values, and ) see the fall and rise. timetime: sparklinesit is specific style of small multiples for line charts.sparklines are small intense, simple, word-sized graphics with typographic resolution.they are typically used in data-rich tables and may appear at the end of row or column.purpose: not for specific values but for general patterns. timetime: sparklinesin the table: spending in and 2015sparklines: values for the entire -year period timetime: bump chartas variation on the line chart, bump chart is used for plotting changes in ranks over time.when we want to show relative ranks rather than absolute values, the bump chart is good choice.it does not show the raw values. timetime: bump chart timetime: bump chartcompared with line chart, which do you prefer?in bump chart, we cannot see the relative differences, but we can see relative ranks. timetime: cycle chartcycle graphs typically compare small units of time, such as weeks or months, across multiyear time frame.when: to display strong seasonal trends timetime: cycle chart timetime: area chartarea charts are line graphs with the area below the line filled in, giving the series more visual weight. timetime: area chart timetime: area chartstrategy to address the overlap problem: add transparency to the color of one (or both) series timetime: stacked area chartstacked area charts build on the typical area chart by showing multiple data series simultaneously.instead of sitting independently of one another as in the previous chart, the data in stacked area chart sum to total or percentage. timetime: stacked area chartour eyes are drawn to different conclusions from these two charts. timetime: stacked area chartbe careful with the order. timetime: stacked area chart timetime: horizon charta horizon chart is an area chart that is sliced into equal horizontal intervals and collapsed down into single bands.it can condense dense dataset into single visualization.darker colors represent larger values and lighter colors smaller values. timetime: horizon chart timetime: horizon chart timetime: horizon chart timetime: gantt chartanother way to show changes over time is to use horizontal lines or bars to show the duration of different values or actions.gantt charts are often used as schedule-tracking devices: to track different phases of project or budget. timetime: gantt chart timetime: gantt charta variation: to use the width of the bars to denote another variable timetime: flow charts and timelinesthey are two examples of an array of visuals that can show changes over time or different kinds of processes, sequences, or hierarchies. timetime: flow charts and timelinesan example of timeline: timetime: flow charts and timelinesan example of flow chart:colors, shapes, and other elements can help readers understand the paths of process. timetime: connected scatterplotto bring two time series together without using dual-axis chart. connected scatterplot shows two time series simultaneously, one each along horizontal and vertical axis, and are connected by line to show relationships of the points over time. timetime: connected scatterplot timetime: connected scatterplotannotation can help. timesummary:the line chart may be the most basic and familiar chart type to show changes over time.alternative chart types when you have too many data series to track:sparklines, small multiples approach, cycle charts, horizon chartsengaging and interesting vs accurate 03start your visualization part three timeline: timeline: timeline: timeline: timeline: timeline:to highlight line. timeline:connected scatterplot timestacked area chart timestacked area chartto change the order timehorizon chart timehorizon chart1)create calculated field for each slicecheck the min. and max. of the data firsthere we need slices: -; -; -; -;- timehorizon chart1)create calculated field for each slicehow the slices work: timehorizon chart2) put the continuous measure values in rows, the discrete measure values in color timehorizon chart3) turn off stacked marks timehorizon chart3) turn off stacked markssort the measure names to make the largest in frontchange the colors time for exercise!
form 2b sm -- machine learning for artists instructor: dr. hctor rodrguez abstract machine learning pervades many aspects of contemporary life. in response to this situation, media artists have also started to apply and reflect on machine learning algorithms in their own work. this course introduces basic concepts of machine learning for artists in hands-on practical way. the focus is not on rigorous presentation of technical material but on the use of techniques for creative purposes. the course will have two parts. first, we will introduce the fundamental concept of machine learning and other related ideas (supervised vs. unsupervised learning, regression vs. classification, etc.) and explore classical algorithms in such areas as clustering, classification, dimensionality reduction, and manifold learning. instead of jumping directly to advanced topics like deep neural networks, we therefore begin with classical algorithms and fundamental notions to build strong foundation. the second part will then move on to neural networks and deep learning. the course will mainly concentrate on practical techniques that artists can use. the focus of the course will be on image processing rather than natural language or sound, but students can develop projects in those areas on the basis of the concepts learnt in class. students are expected to code in the python programming language and to reflect on the techniques that they use from technical, aesthetic, cultural and social standpoints. these aspects can include, for instance: description of the history of neural networks and machine learning in relation to eugenics, cybernetics, or warfare; discussion of the social impact of machine learning on gender, work, poverty, or race; reflection on the philosophical aspects of machine learning, such as the nature of induction; discussion of political and social aspects of imagenet and other popular datasets; an awareness of the tendency of technology to become black box and the problem of interpretable or explainable ai; questions of resource-use (for instance energy consumption, carbon emission, or impact on climate); data collection, digital labour, and surveillance capitalism; etc. assessment will be studio-based. workshops will be conducted using contemporary languages and frameworks, such as for instance: python, and the main libraries are scikit-learn, scikit-image, anx pytorch. course intended learning outcomes (cilos) . describe the main machine learning concepts, including regression, classification, clustering, dimensionality reduction, manifold learning, neural networks, and deep learning . apply the concepts and techniques in the creation of artistic projects using python . reflect on the social, cultural, and artistic role or impact of machine learning technologies . develop your individual artistic vision regarding the use of machine learning method. . describe and evaluate your own artistic vision and those of others. teaching and learning activities (tlas) . lectures introducing basic concepts in machine learning, their application in art, and the social or cultural role of machine learning technologies. . hands-on programming exercises using python to build familiarity with machine learning techniques. . optional oral presentations and discussions of your own work and of the work of other artists. form 2b assessment there will be two assessment tasks. each task involves the completion of one individual artistic project (which may be series of projects on related theme) that uses machine learning techniques coded in python. the first project should use classical machine learning methods (for instance, those in the scikit-learn library) and the second project should use neural networks (for instance, using the pytorch library). both projects should demonstrate that you have reflected on the datasets used for training and that you have worked to gain some understanding of the technology that you use. the submission must include: . short artists statement (one paragraph) introducing your project to general audience. this description should summarize the works medium (video, game, digital print, etc.), format, and main concept clearly and succinctly. . documentation of the work (for instance, photographs of the work, or links to video or audio files). you can also include sketches and 3d visualizations. please make sure that the links can be accessed from major browsers (for instance chrome). if your materials require password, please include the password in your document (it is not recommended that you use password, but you are free to do so). . you are very welcome (optionally) to produce one or more video essays presenting your work or your ideas about machine learning. make sure that you include links to online versions of those essays. note that the video essays, if you choose to make them, will contribute to your grade, and will be assessed in terms of their professional presentation (editing, sound, etc.) . background research and reflection. you must reflect on the social or cultural aspects of machine learning that are relevant to your project (because your own art project is response to those aspects). you should also demonstrate extensive research and critical commentary about machine learnings relation to art/culture by selecting art projects by other artists (in any medium or media) that are relevant to your concept, and explain your relation to those projects. for instance, you could criticize other projects, showing their weaknesses or limitations, and then explain how your own work addresses those weaknesses or limitations. you should discuss the dataset you have used for training. how did you constitute this dataset and why? . details about the format and setup of the project (for instance, if it is video, include the number of channels, technical specification of the files (codecs, etc.), and any other information about the setup of the work (for instance, how many computers it requires, whether it must be shown in dark room, etc.) . an explanation of the technology that you have used in the production of the project. this should include the programs that you have written and used for the project. for instance, if you use principal component analysis, you should briefly explain what it is and why you have used it. if you have developed new algorithm for your project, explain it clearly and succinctly. . an appendix that includes the code, or the main part of the code for your work. please indicate clearly which portions were created by yourself. failure to do so will constitute plagiarism. please avoid plagiarism in any form. do not plagiarize any statements written by other people. if you use any sentences by others, or even ideas from other people which you paraphrase in your own words, please reference them appropriately. you should not only cite them in your bibliography but also in the main text of your document (for instance, using footnotes or endnotes). do not copy other peoples artistic methods or ideas without acknowledgment. all plagiarism will be reported to the school and may incur heavy penalties, such as grade deduction or even failure. you are, however, welcome to use found footage if it is necessary to your project. found footage is well-established tradition in modern art and you are welcome to use it. but you should not use found footage because you want to save yourself the trouble to shoot the material yourself. good reason to use found footage, for instance of old movies, is because you want to make statement about film history. please indicate clearly in your statement which form 2b footage was not made by you. if you cannot finish the art project because it is too complicated to execute or requires expensive resources, you can submit an unfinished project together with very detailed and precise description of the projected work. the description should clearly explain how the work is to be executed. avoid vagueness in the description of your technology. for instance, do not say: will use some machine learning technique to identify faces. instead, explain which algorithm you will use and give some implementation details. if you cannot finish the work due to poor time management, submit documentation of the work in progress. some marks may be deducted if the work is unfinished without good reason. due dates: tbc provisionally, the first assessment will be due on october and the second will be due on december . assessment rubrics each project will contribute equally to the final grade. these are the rubrics for each project. artistic achievement: ability to apply machine learning concepts and techniques to the production of artworks. weight: % excellent (+, , -) good (+, , -) fair (+, , -) marginal () failure () highly original artistic vision and professional artistic craft (including careful design of all details involved in the production and exhibition of the work), suitable for exhibition in world-class artistic venue. innovative reflection on the aesthetic and social implications of machine learning, including the constitution of dataset. successful realization of the concept in the work. clear and insightful description of the project. expression of personal artistic vision that is somewhat original and is professionally executed. clear and accurate description and justification of the work. successful realization of the concept in the work. ability to complete artistic projects that lack originality and demonstrate poor artistic craft. superficial, vague, or unclear discussion of the works engagement with art or culture. reasonable ability to implement the concept in the work, with some areas where the work falls short of the concept. lack of artistic originality and any reflection on social and cultural aspects. far below professional artistic standards. substantial failures to implement the concept in the work. failure to complete any artistic project that uses machine learning technology. technological depth: knowledge of the machine learning technology, characterized by an ability to innovate and engage in personal reflection on the cultural aspects of technology. weight: % excellent (+, , -) good (+, , -) fair (+, , -) marginal () failure () form 2b innovative reflection on the cultural and social aspects of technology supported by solid and thorough research, informed by original insights into the social or philosophical aspects of machine learning. strong understanding of the technology being used through the ability to design innovative techniques and write ones own code to implement new algorithms. reflection on social and cultural aspects of machine learning without substantial originality but backed by solid and through research. clear and accurate description of the technology. ability to write part of the code by oneself without producing new algorithms. basic description of the technology but with occasional mistakes or with superficial understanding of technical issues. basic understanding of the social or cultural impact of technology without any in-depth reflection and limited research. basic understanding of machine learning technologies using algorithms created by other people without substantial modification. sufficient ability to apply the technology in artistic projection to pass the course, often using only code written by other people. inability to write new code. failure to use machine learning technology, even if relying on code written by other people. reading list basic readings scikit-learn user guide and tutorials scikit-image documentation pytorch documentation and tutorials machine learning for artists keras guides and examples ai art gallery algorithmic justice league additional readings theoretical and pratical books about machine learning ethem alpaydn. introduction to machine learning. mit press, . john . kelleher. deep learning. mit press, . marc peter deisenroth, . aldo faisal, cheng soon ong. mathematics for machine learning (cambridge, ). form 2b aurlien gron, hands-on machine learning with scikit-learn and tensorflow: concepts, tools, and techniques to build intelligent systems. 'reilly media, . ian goodfellow, yoshua bengio and aaron courville. deep learning. mit press . gavin hackeling. mastering machine learning with scikit-learn. birmingham, uk: packt, . hastie, ., . tibshirani, and . . friedman. the elements of statistical learning: data mining, inference and prediction. new york: springer, gareth james, daniela witten, trevor hastie and robert tibshirani. introduction to statistical learning. springer, . corrected 8th printing, . mitchell, tom. machine learning. new york, ny: mcgraw-hill, . kevin . murphy. machine learning: probabilistic perspective. mit press . francois chollet. deep learning with python. new york: manning, . denis rothman. hands-on explainable ai (xai) with python: interpret, visualize, explain, and integrate reliable ai for fair, secure, and trustworthy ai apps. birmingham, uk: packt publishing, . shai shalev-shwartz and shai ben-david. understanding machine learning: from theory to algorithms (cambridge, ) eli stevens, luca antiga, and thomas viehman. deep learning with pytorch. new york: manning, . ian pointer. programming pytorch for deep learning : creating and deploying deep learning applications. oreilley, . chris mattman. machine learning with tensorflow. new york: manning, . natural language toolkit documentation librosa documentation hugging face resources and online course about transformers yoav goldberg. neural network methods for natural language processing. san rafael, california: morgan and claypool, . hobson lane, cole howard, hannes hapke. natural language processing in action: understanding, analyzing, and generating text with python. london: manning, . uday kamath, john liu, and james whitaker. deep learning for nlp and speech recognition. new york: springer, . soon yau cheong. hands-on image generation with tensorflow. birmingham, packt, . machine learning in art, society, and history alain desrosieres. the politics of large numbers history of statistical reasoning translated by camille naish. cambridge and london: harvard university press, . joanna zylinska. ai art: machine visions and warped dreams. open humanities press, . sofian audry. art in the age of machine learning. mit press, . form 2b ploin, ., eynon, ., hjorth . and osborne, . aai and the arts: how machine learning is changing artistic work. report from the creative algorithmic intelligence research project. oxford: oxford internet institute, . cathy oneill. weapons of math destruction. penguin, . art and machine learning schwartzman, madeline. see yourself sensing redefining human perception. black dog publishing . massimo airoldi. machine habitus: toward society of algorithms. london: polity, . adam rutherford. control. london: &, . adrian mackenzie. machine learners. mit press, . penousal machado, juan romero, and gary greenfield, eds. artificial intelligence and the arts. new york: springer, . marcus du sautoy. the creativity code art and innovation in the age of ai. harvard university press, . jonathan roberge and michael castelle, eds. the cultural life of machine learning: an incursion into critical ai studies. new york: springer, . stegka hristova, jennifer daryl slack and soonkwan hong, eds. algorithnic culture: how big data and artificial intelligence are transforming everyday life. london: lexington books, . ben vickers and . allado-mcdowell. atlas of anomalous ai. ignota books, . dreyfus, hubert. what computers cant do. new york: mit press, . david belinksi. the advent of the algorithm. harcourt books, . roberto cordeschi. the discovery of the artificial: behavior, mind and machines before and behond cybernetics. springer, . pedro domingos. the master algorithm. new york: basic books, . jean-pierre dupuy. the mechanization of the mind: on the origins of cognitive science. princeton, . emily denton, alex hanna, and razvan amironesei. on the genealogy of machine learning datasets: critical history of imagenet. big data and society. july . susan leavy. gender bias in artificial intelligence: the need for diversity and gender theory in machine learning. in: proceedingsinternational conference on software engineering. ieee computer society, , pp. clementine collett, gina neff, and livia gouvea gomes. the effects of ai on the working lives of women. report of the inter american development bank published in by the united nations educational, scientific and cultural organization (unesco). wendy hui kyung chun. programmed visions: software and memory. mit press, . paul thagard. philosophy and machine learning. canadian journal of philosophy, vol. , no. , , pp. . frank pasquale. the black box society: the secret algorithms that control money and information. harvard, . will douglas heaven. predictive policing algorithms are racist. they need to be dismantled. mit technology review. july , . safiya umoja noble. algorithms of oppression: how search engines reinforce racism. new york university press, . form 2b iyad rahwan et al. machine behavior. nature. vol april , -. shoshana zuboff. the age of surveillance capitalism. new york: public affairs, . adam krashniak and ehud lamm. francis galton' regression towards mediocrity and the stability of types. stud hist philos sci. april , :-.
smart material :heat-induced shape-changing material21// smart? responsive/reactivesmart materials are the materials that can significantly alter one or more of their inherent properties due to the external stimuli.stress/force/pressuretemperaturemoistureelectric fieldsmagnetic fieldsetc.usually, the smart material can return to the original status after the stimulus is removed. shape-changing material thermo-reactive shape-memory alloy(sma) the science behind..nitinol alloy the science behind..nitinol alloy but then how sma works in room temperature (~ 24oc)atom atom pull by external forcein room temperature (~ 24oc) heat up (~ 60oc) cool down. the atoms move little bit back to usual, but the shape doesnt really change here. so the alloy can memorize/learn its shape.learning ->>> intelligence how to train the memory?we need much higher temperature! training sma: design the shape training sma: make the jig training sma: wire the alloy training sma: high-temperature heat treatment till red hot //2023so the wire memorizes/learns the shape!! training sma: water-cool down //2023so the wire memorizes/learns the shape!! making spring making spring what kind of heat source? ?? koizumi, ., yasu, ., liu, ., sugimoto, ., & inami, . (). animated paper: toolkit for building moving toys.computers in entertainment (cie),(), -. jieqis exporationon sma with paper autogami studio roosegarde, lotus dome working with sma ( 1trigger the shape change with battery/hair dryerdemo 2train the shapeusing power supplyusing iron in-class/take-home group task: submit by tomorrow midnight (:59pm)train the shape of your smaattach it to type of flexible material (can be paper, soft fabric, and so on)trigger the shape change using type of heat sourcecan be battery, really hot water (boiling), hair dryer, and so onvideo recording the above steps, and upload the video to any video online platform, and submit the link on canvas21// some more references of works
sm3809 software art studio reviewfinal projects pitchespresentation: net.artmachine learning part iihidden layersbackpropagationclassication vs regressionautoencoders & latent spacethis week neural networksdebuggingcallbacks / promisesmarkov-models / -gramsthe game of life random seedsnoiserandom walkoscillatorssubdivisiongenerative/critical artprocessing image pixelsl-systemsobservablenatural languagethe semestercontinuous changerule-based systemsrecursion / treesregular expressionsarray/object functionsmapping the mouseevolutionary algorithmsscraping / puppeteernode / npmunix/terminal/shellgit/githubfinal projectsclient / serverhandling jsonusing apis??? presentation: net.art final project pitches machine learning perceptrons building neural network the problemwe have data set containing the location of buildings in neighborhood, and the number of virus cases in that building.we need to nd (straight) quarantine line to separate buildings with cases from those with none. more resources neural networks lets try to code one together dataset at the data[{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases }, ]can we use machine learning? the data[{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases }, ]but what if our data is not linearly separable? hyperplanes hyperplanes the data[{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases }, ]but what if our data is not linearly separable? lets give it try neural networksstep start with our sketch from last week (in-class code)but load the new json dataset from the url below render it onscreen with red for locations with cases dataset at how does our network do? neural networksstep 1i we may no longer have lineso lets try to better visualize whats happeningwhat if we classify() every point on screen? neural networksstep iii lets add hidden layer and see if it improves thingsbut this will require backpropagationwhat is it?! backpropagation neural networksstep iv lets try to code it with ml5.js should we use regression or classication ? breathe autoencoders & latent spaces autoencoders autoencoder applications autoencoders & latent spaces generating digits step : we take random images and generate multi-dimensional encodings step : generate interpolations (say linear interpolations) between the encodings step : generate images for each of these interpolations by passing them through decoder generating digits latent space interpolation from to 6latent space interpolation from to the latent space of faces
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session : friendship (source: beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. (.)) concepts to learn listening skills the way of giving feedback communication barriers nonverbal communication .what is/are the characteristics of person whom you think you could treat him/her as your . friend? . close friend? .to you, what is/are the characteristics of person that you will consider as the most important in close friendship? .what do you want from your friends, and what do you think your friends want from you? listening > talking when you talk, you are only repeating what you already know ; but when you listen, you may learn something new . --dalai lama listening skills what does your friend need when he/ she talks to you? is it solution to the problem? you can: offer solution; or offer emotional support so that your friend can regain the strength to find his/her solution. by active listening, you are offering emotional support. what is listening? element of listening explanation hearing the physiological aspects of listening involve sound waves striking the ear at certain frequency and volume. attending attention is focused on some messages and filters out others. understanding the listener must interpret the messages similarly to the way the sender intended them. responding the listener gives observable feedback to the sender. remembering the listener is able to recall the content and meaning of the messages at future time. listening skills: phrasing different ways of phrasingexplanation content it is more effective you paraphrase the senders message than making interpretation or repeating. depth respond seriously to serious statement; and lightly to shallow statement. responses that match the senders depth of feeling or that lead the sender on to slightly greater depth of feeling are most effective. meaning pay attention to the meaning conveyed. do not add or omit meaning. reflect your understanding and check whether you are right or wrong. language keep it simple to ensure accurate communication. verbal communication it is use of words to convey information, and can convey four broad kinds of information: cognitive content -facts ( have meeting this sat) -events (your aunt is coming this sat too) -people (, mum, family, group mates) -things (project, dinner)affective content -open or latent (open: am angry; latent: dont want this to happen neither (guilty)) -feelings and emotions(ok! ill give up) -expressed (we cant settle due to schedule crash) -implied (relative importance of family to school work)-power ( am your mother, you have to listen to me) -control (group meeting is collective decision that cannot be changed by me)four kinds of contents relationship content meaning contentthe implication is even simple statement can convey rich content verbal communication how many kinds of content can you identify?the implication is even simple statement can convey rich content to manage verbal communication is to handle conveying and perceiving of the different kinds of content your aunt will visit us next week from canada and we will have dinner with her. why cant you come together but only saying that you have to prepare for the quiz? dont you belong to this family? your aunt has not visited us for years! if you dont come this time, dont come home ever!can you see what is hidden in the content? in the parents perspective? chris how can be so stupid? ive been preparing for this interview for whole week and now myself ruined it. just one stupid mistake: one single, careless, huge, unforgivable mistake! you know, ive studied the companys background for week and believed that have made good preparation for this interview. but, do you know how stupid am? mixed up the history of this company with another one! yes. am stupid! am really stupid! (silence) you know, when the interviewer asked me to talk about what know about the company, was so confident, (pause) but over -confident! you know, the most stupid thing is that you think you are great but youre doing something obviously wrong. myself destroyed my future! (long silence) maybe, should be more positive, (pause) but you know, feel so bad about myself giving feedback point : give an objective description of the behavior youve observed; give descriptive, not evaluative or judgmental feedback; be prompt, timing is important; be concrete and specific; use -statement; check whether your friend understood your feedback. giving feedback point : consider your friends needs as well as your own; avoid being egocentric; you are in the process of learning about your friend; dont assume you are always right. by caring for your friends needs you are already giving support. giving feedback point : give positive as well as negative feedback; give positive feedback; it offers your friend additional strengths; give negative feedback; it helps your friend think more critically; it is usually good to start with positive feedback. look at the bright side of your friends weakness. giving feedback point : direct your feedback at behavior that can be changed ; feedback is useful only when it relates to something the other person can control; feedback is useless when it is about personal attributes or opportunities that have already been missed. activity are these useful feedback? ive told you that you should wear black suits in interview. they dont want to hire you because you live too far away from the company. they dont want to hire you because you have no experience in the field. you better arrive minutes earlier next time. think it is always good to look up more information about the company before you attend the interview. do you think the other candidates in the interview are better than you? more about friends what can and cant good friend do? good friend can: listen to your problems with empathybut good friend cant: solve your problems for you good friend can: give accurate description about your personalitybut good friend cant: always give you critical comments and objective suggestions about your behaviors be quiet, compassionate listener resist the temptation to fix bobby schuller ( --) in his sermon entitled heal like jesus says: one of the greatest ways that you can be healing presence in the world around you is just to be quiet, compassionate listener . bobby reminds us: you can' fix people. fixing is for machines. people need to be healed . so we need to have empathy we have to resist the temptation to fix people listen first bobby schuller ( --) in his sermon entitled heal like jesus continues: you don' have to do much, really, to heal others. you just have to care. sometimes you just have to listen . and you'll notice when you listen to the suffering of others and you empathize and you feel their pain, you'll see something turn in them where all of sudden they're ready for encouragement . don' encourage them at first. listen first .and then when they seem to have received healing, that' when you say, "you can do it. you have bright future. believe in you. see something great in you." you really can change people' lives. it' not about the nail "don' try to fix it. just need you to listen . every man has heard these words. and they are the law of the land. no matter what. its not about the nail barriers to communication . judging criticizing name -calling and labeling diagnosing praising evaluatively . sending solutions ordering threatening moralizing excessive or inappropriate questioning advisingc. avoiding the others concerns diverting logical argument reassuring barriers to communication criticizing you have met your friend who is studying in another department of cityu . you ask how he feels about the life in cityu here. however, he keeps on criticizing many problems in cityu so that you do not know how to respond and have nothing to say as well. barriers to communication name calling or labeling you want to talk to your boss about how working procedures could be improved. but he is not at all interested in your suggestion. instead, he is constantly referring you as those young people, inexperienced little girl, typical female and so on. it seems as if no matter how much effort you are making, he is still not taking you seriously. barriers to communication diagnosing you are talking to your friend about the unhappy relationship you are having with your boyfriend/girlfriend. your friend keeps on analyzing for you that you may be too anxious about your boy/girl friend so that you want to get attention from him/her; he/she must be insecure and so on. your friend seems to treat you as case study and tries to make analysis of your case. barriers to communication praising evaluatively your uncle visits your family and keeps on saying that you are so smart that you gain entry into the cityu , perform well and soon get well -paid job, have rich and prominent friends and finally, he says to you that he may need your help someday in the future. barriers to communication ordering your mother is sick and you want to take few days off to take care of her. however, when you talk to your boss, he pays no attention to your request but strictly orders that everybody should go to work and have overtime duties as the amount of work in your company is very heavy lately. barriers to communication threatening you want to ask your supervisor the way to invite colleagues to join the celebration party that the company is going to organize. however, your supervisor tells you that it is compulsory for all staff to attend the party no matter whether they like it or not, otherwise, their prospect will be affected and they will be black listed. barriers to communication moralizing you are now twenty -three, graduated from cityu for two years and have pretty stable job. you want to get married with your boy/girl friend who you have dated for five years. but your friend brings out all the reasons for your early marriage by saying that you should work longer to contribute to the society, should earn more money to support your parents, should not get married too young barriers to communication excessive/inappropriate questioning you have just returned home from interviewing for job, your father seems over concerned and keeps on asking question about that job, what exactly you are responsible for, where do you work, what kind of transportation you should take, what will be your exact salary, hows about the colleagues, the promotion . you cannot give answers and become annoyed. barriers to communication advising your friend is crying as she tells you about the conflicts that she had with her boyfriend in these few months. before having sufficient understanding of the situation, you start to give advices to her, such as you should leave him and meet more other boyfriends; better not to talk to him for month so as to punish him; most men are not reliable , etc... barriers to communication diverting your friend tells you that he is going to take an operation to remove gall stone in the qeh. you do not wait for him to finish and start talking about your own experience of hospitalization there. you talk to him how bad the catering was there and suggest menu of healthy food. you completely ignore the concern and fear of your friend but divert the focus to your concern or to other unrelated topics. barriers to communication logical argument the relationship between your friend and his dating partner is getting worse. the day before, they had fight. your friend is depressed and emotional. you logically argue that your friend should be responsible for the fight. man should not fight with woman. its his fault to fight with his girlfriend. fighting may lead to more serious problems. it is illogical to use fight as solution to solve their problem. however, you have no idea of why their relationship is getting worse. barriers to communication reassuring five months after graduation, your friend still does not have job. he/she is very worried. you keep on giving some easy reassurances to him/her by saying that things will go well and that she should not worry any more. although you seem to comfort him/her, you cannot say anything to support what you are thinking of, but only give reassurance with no ground. non -verbal communication are these verbal or non -verbal? the way you sit or standfacial expression fluency of speechloudness of speechclearing of throatpraise hand gesturesspatial distance tone of voice non -verbal communication how can tell if he/ she likes me before asking? nonverbal cues warmth coldness tone of voice soft hard facial expressionsmiling, interested frowning, disinterested posture lean toward other; relaxedlean away from other; tense eye contact look into others eyes look away touching touch other softly avoid touching other gestures open, welcoming closed, guarded, keeping other away spatial distance close distant the body language signals to tell if they really like their christmas present (by 1clicknews on december , -body -language -signals -to-tell-if-they-really -like-their-christmas - present/ you can learn more through reading you can learn more through reading references to know more about sociogram: moreno, . . (). who shall survive? new approach to the problem of human interrelations.. washington: nervous and mental disease pub. co.. to know more about poem of friendship: best friends forever, best friend poem. (..). family friend poems -real poems, real people, real life. retrieved february , , from -friends - forever -#ixzz1kwdsi6bj to know more about gender role research and gender role: broverman, . ., vogel, . ., broverman, . ., clarkson, . ., & rosenkrantz, . . (). sex -role stereotypes: current appraisal. the journal of social issues, (), -. feldman, . . (). ch . sexuality and gender. understanding psychology (10thed., pp. -). new york: mcgraw -hill. references to know more about nonverbal communication: johnson, . . (). ch . expressing your feelings nonverbally. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self -actualization (9thed., pp. -). boston: pearson & . navarro, ., & karlins, . (). what every body is saying: an ex -fbi agent' guide to speed -reading people. new york, ny: collins living. to know more about listening skills: atwater, . ( ). hear you: listening skills handbook (rev. ed.). new york: walker. johnson, . . (). ch . helpful listening and responding. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self -actualization (10th ed., pp. -). upper saddle river, ..: pearson. nichols, . . (). the lost art of listening: how learning to listen can improve relationships (2nd ed.). new york: guilford press. to know more about giving and receiving feedback: koopmans, . (). feedback: mastering the art of giving and receiving feedback . zaltbommel: thema. references to know more about communication barriers & dealing with communication barriers: rogers, . (). on becoming person: therapists view of psychotherapy. boston: houghton mifflin. corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole. to know more about other -oriented communication: beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. other readings ben-shahar, tal. (). happier: learn the secrets to daily joy and lasting fulfillment. new york: the mcgraw -hill companies. ben-shahar, tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life. new york: mcgraw -hill. greenberg, . . (). comprehensive stress management. new york: mcgraw - hill. (pp. -) references to know more about love attitude: hendrick,., hendrick, . ., & dicke, . (). the love attitudes scale - short form. in . . simmons & . lehmann. (). tools for strengths -based assessment and evaluation . new york: springer publishing com. (pp. -) hendrick,., hendrick, . ., & dicke, . (). the love attitudes scale: short form . journal of social and personal relationships , (), -. graham, . . (). measuring love in romantic relationships: meta - analysis. journal of social and personal relationships , (), -. to know more about authentic love and coping with ending long -term relationship: corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (9thedition). australia: brooks/cole. corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole.
sm2715 creative coding unit object -oriented programmin manfred lau topics unit 1basics: processing, data type unit structure: function, class unit 3image processing unit image processing unit vide processing unit ambient: random, noise, maths unit ambient: random, noise, math unit audio processing unit time -based media unit game and physical simulation unit particle systems quick review of important statements if(boolean condition) { statements; } else { statements; }for(init; loop; increment) { statements; } if(keycode == up) { fillval = ; } else if (keycode == down) { fillval = ; }int sum = ; for(int =; <=; ++) { sum = sum + ; } println (sum is + sum);initstatements; while (loop) { statements; increment statements; } int sum = ; int = ; while (<=) { sum = sum + ; ++; } println (sum is + sum); for your own coding: find examples and start from them what is object in object -oriented programming ? how does this relate to programming? for example , human object: human data height. weight. gender. eye color. hair color. human functions sleep. wake up. eat. jump. walk. the properties of an object are data/variables ; and the things an object can do are functions . this is what we have for programming. aisanobject . bisanobject (the same object but with different parameters). in the world of oop, and are created by template ( class ) oop -object -oriented programming (oop) : programming paradigm based on the concept of objects , which may contain -data , in the form of fields, often known as attributes ; and -function , in the form of procedures, often known as methods data function sclass class class class example 1a simple face (non -oop) face data xpos,ypos . face size. eye size. mouth sizewk2_example_01_a_non_oop_face what will you do if we want to create more faces? like this: what is the different between those faces in term of face data ? how about create face template ( face class ) face data xpos,ypos . face size. eye size. mouth size then, create the face object object class ,. fsize. esize. msize ryan mary peter class definition -all classes must include four elements: -class name syntax class classname . -follow variable naming rules -traditionally capitalized (to distinguish them from variable names, which traditionally are lowercase) -attributes collection of variables -often referred to as instance variables since each instance of an object contains this set of variables -constructor special function inside of class -for creating the instance of the object -always has the same name as the class, with no return type -can have multiple constructors ( examples ) -methods collection of functions create instances of class .declare an instance name of particular class .construct the instance using the new operator class circle { // instance variables float radius; string color; // constructors (overloaded) // 1st constructor circle() { radius = .; color = "red"; } // 2nd constructor circle(double ) { radius = ; color = "red"; } // 3rd constructor circle(double , string ) { radius = ; color = ; } // declare instances of the class // circle, c1, c2, and c3 circle c1, c2, c3; // they hold special value called null // construct the instances via new operator c1 = new circle(); c2 = new circle(.); c3 = new circle(., "red"); // you can declare and construct in the same statement circle c4 = new circle(); dot (.) operator to reference member variable or method aninstance.avariable : aninstance savariable aninstance.amethod (): aninstance samethod () example calling getarea () without the instance is meaningless c1.radius and c2.radius are likely different// suppose that the class circle has variables radius and color, // and methods getarea() and getradius(). // declare and construct instances c1 and c2 of the class circle circle c1 = new circle (); circle c2 = new circle (); // invoke member methods for the instance c1 via dot operator println(c1.getarea()); println(c1.getradius()); // reference member variables for instance c2 via dot operator c2.radius = .; c2.color = "blue"; example 1b simple face (oop) step : define the face class step : display the face object declare an object. initialize object. call methods on the object.data constructor functionalityunit0 2_example_01_b_oop_face example 1c many face (oop) now, we can create three face objects ryan mary peterafter creating the face class, we can now creates the instance of the object and set up the individual object with different properties/data within the sketch. unit0 2_example_01_c_oop_three_faces how about creat ingmore faces? hint: use array and random function unit0 2_example_01_d_oop_many_faces array and random function try examples in random() reference pageint[] array_var = new int[]; for(int =; <; ++) { array_var [] = ; } int sum = ; for(int =; <; ++) { sum = sum + array_var []; } println (sum is + sum);for(int =; <; ++) { float rf = random(); int ri= int(rf); // println (rf); println (ri); } int num = ; face[] faces = new face[ num ]; how about creat ingmore and more faces? unit0 2_example_01_e_oop_many_faces 2d array int[][] array_var = new int[][]; for(int =; <; ++) { for(int =; <; ++) { array_var [][] = ; } } int row = ; int col = ; face[][] faces = new face[row][col]; non -oop car what if wewant to create many cars?wk2_example_02_a_non_oop_car now, there is one moving car. unit0 2_example_0 2_a_non_ oop_car class and object - class : group of related methods (functions) and fields (variables and constants) -your customi zed data type -objects are instances of classes -variables of classes each car has its own color, and positions and speed unit0 2_example_02_b_oop_carunit0 2_example_02_c_two_car example 2d many cars declare an array of car car[] mycars = new car[num]; construct each new car using for loop move and display each car using for loop again!unit0 2_example_02_d_many_cars example 2e class code can be in separate . pde file and shown in separate tab file name == class name unit0 2_example_02_e exercise -based on example (), use array and mousepressed ()function to create one car at time with mouse click -can use append() function (check reference page) -use the mouse to define the initial position of each carunit0 2_exercise_ int[] myarray = new int[]; myarray = (int[]) append (myarray , ); myarray = (int[]) append (myarray , ); println (myarray );car[] mycars = new car[]; mycars = (car[]) append (mycars , new car()); exercise -optional: allow user to control the speed of each car using the mouse distance between mousepressed ()and mouse released () -can use map() function (check reference page, run examples there)unit02 _exercise_ float = map (, , , , ); //float = map (, , , , ); //float = map (, , , , ); //float = map (, , , , ); //float = map (, , , , ); //float = map (, , , , ); //float = map (, , , , ); println ();
sm2715 creative coding unit image processing manfred lau topics (each unit is not necessarily week) unit 1basics: processing, data type unit structure: function, class general programming in processing unit 3image processing unit image processing unit vide processing unit ambient: random, noise, maths unit ambient: random, noise, math unit audio processing unit time -based media unit game and physical simulation unit particle systems image loading -pimage datatype for storing images -syntax pimage imagename ; // declare variable type pimage -to add an image file to the data directory sketch add file... or sketch show sketch folder, then create data directory and place the image file inside -to load an image into type pimage variable loadimage (filename) .. imagename = loadimage (filename.jpg); example load and display image pimage img = loadimage("haeckel01.jpg"); size(,); image(img, , ); ernst haeckel displaying image -fields of pimage variable: pixels[], width, height ..myimg.pixels [], myimg.width , myimg.height -to display an image image( imagename , , ); // image displayed at its original size with its // upper -left corner at coordinates ( ,) or image( imagename , , , , ); // image displayed at size ( xh) // with its upper -left corner at coordinates ( ,) fields and methods of pimage displaying image pimage imagename ; // declare imagename = loadimage (filename.jpg); // load image( imagename , , ); // display image file should be placed in data folder displaying image -why use setup() and draw()? -can you add some user interaction? -for example with mousex and mousey -what if we have mousex and mousey , but with no draw() function? example loading image from web pimage webimg; void setup() { string url = " -content/uploads///the -birthday - -chagall.jpg"; // load image from web webimg = loadimage(url); size(, ); } void draw() { background(); image(webimg, , ); } background image example basics/image/ backgroundimage pimage bg; int ; void setup() { size(, ); bg = loadimage("moonwalk.jpg"); } void draw() { background(bg); stroke(, , ); line(, , width, ); ++; if ( > height) { = ; } } pimage bg, rabbit; void setup() { bg = loadimage("moonwalk.jpg"); size(, ); imagemode(center); rabbit = loadimage("rabbit1.gif"); //rabbit = loadimage("rabbit2.gif"); // -bit transparency (cloud) //rabbit = loadimage("rabbit3.png"); // -bit transparency (cloud) //permanently resize the image: //rabbit.resize(, ); // unspecifying height to keep the aspect ratio } void draw() { background(bg); image(rabbit, mousex, mousey); // alternative to resize() method: //image(rabbit, mousex, mousey, rabbit.width*., rabbit.height*.); } example imagemode -image( imagename , , ) or image( imagename , , , , ) -syntax imagemode (corner) -default, (, ) defines the upper -left corner of the image imagemode (corners) -(, ) defines the upper -left corner of the image, while (, ) defines the opposite corner imagemode (center) -(, ) defines the center of the image, while (, ) (if exist) defines the width and height of the image example get() method -syntax img.get (, ) -getting the color of single pixel img.get (, , , ) -getting section of the display window by specifying an additional width and height parameter img.get () -getting the entire image pimage img; void setup() { size(, ); img = loadimage("moonwalk.jpg"); nostroke(); rectmode(center); } void draw() { image(img,,); fill(img.get(mousex, mousey)); rect(mousex, mousey, , ); } mapping -re-maps number from one range to another. -syntax map(value, start1, stop1, start2, stop2) -example void draw() { float = map( mousex , , width, , ); background(); println (int()); } example basics/image/pointillism pimage img; int smallpoint , largepoint ; void setup() { size(, ); img = loadimage ("moonwalk.jpg"); smallpoint = ; largepoint = ; imagemode (center); nostroke (); background(); } void draw() { float pointillize = map( mousex , , width, smallpoint , largepoint ); int = int(random( img.width )); int = int(random( img.height )); color pix = img.get (, ); fill(pix, ); ellipse(, , pointillize , pointillize ); } pimage img; int , ; int speed = ; float diameter; void setup() { size(, ); = width/; = height/; img = loadimage("moonwalk.jpg"); background(); nostroke(); } void draw() { += (int)random( -speed, speed); += (int)random( -speed, speed); = constrain(, , width -); = constrain(, , height -); diameter = random(, ); fill(img.get(, ),); ellipse(, , diameter, diameter); } example random walk to min? break tint: image color & transparency -syntax (affects only images) tint( rgb) tint( rgb, alpha) tint(gray) tint(gray, alpha) tint(v1, v2, v3) tint(v1, v2, v3, alpha)// example // based on daniel shiffman // learning processing 2nd edition . pimage sunflower = loadimage("sunflower.jpg"); pimage dog = loadimage("dog.jpg"); size(, ); background(dog); tint(); tint(); //tint(, ); //tint(, , ); //tint(, , , ); image(sunflower, , ); example // based on daniel shiffman // learning processing 2nd edition . // and processing handbook example - pimage sunflower = loadimage("sunflower.jpg"); size(, ); background(); tint(, ); // draw the image times, moving each to the right for (int = ; < ; ++) image(sunflower, *, ); preset image filters processing offers series of preset filters that can be applied to any image: syntax filter(mode) filter(mode, para ) mode threshold(range -), gray, opaque, invert, posterize(range -), blur(range >=), erode or dilate example fields and methods of pimage example filter() vs pimage.filter() pimage img1, img2; //define an image object void setup() { img1 = loadimage ("baby.jpg"); img2 = loadimage ("baby.jpg"); size(, ); background(); // apply filter to img1 img1.filter(invert); }void draw() { image(img1, , ); image(img2, , ); // apply filter to the entire display window filter(gray); image(img2, , ); } exercise -create sketch of andy warhols pop art style using any color image -do not use photoshop -use filter() method of pimage to binarize the source image -use random() and tint() to apply different tint color to each image -randomize the tint colors in each frame suggested solution to exercise wk3_exercise_01 -we stop here for this week? -and do the rest in the following week manipulating pixels -steps: .visit every pixel, usually using two for-loop structure .change the content (color) of the current pixel based on some rules. this step is similar to applying filter, but with different levels for different pixel coordinates -techniques: color = get(, ); ... set(, , ); or loadpixels (); loc = *width + ; color = pixels[loc]; ... pixels[loc] = ; updatepixels ();some code to adjust (step ) locating pixels pixel_index = + * widthy*width ywidth pixel array 1d pixel array 2d why pixel array 2d? loc (,) = + * = pixel array 2d why pixel array 2d? consider brightness brighter colors have higher values for their red, green, and blue components. it follows naturally that you can alter the brightness of an image by increasing or decreasing the color components of each pixel. in this example, we dynamically increase or decrease those values based on the mouse ' horizontal location. example brightness (pixel level) loads snapshot of the current display window into the pixels[] array sets current pixel to color updates the display window with the data in the pixels[] array size(, ); for (int = ; < width; ++) { for (int = ; < height; ++ ) { float maxdist = ; float = dist(, , width/, height/); float = map(, , maxdist, , ); color = color(); set(, , ); } } radial gradient // equivalent to float = *( maxdist -)/maxdist ; since we are altering the image on per pixel basis, all pixels need not be treated equally. for example, we can alter the brightness of each pixel according to its distance from the mouse. float = dist (, , mousex, mousey); float adjustbrightness = map(, , , , ); 0dsyntax map(value, start1, stop1, start2, stop2) map() functionlets modify example // based on algorithms for visual design // using the processing language . - pimage img = loadimage("memorial.jpg"); size(, ); int step = ; nostroke(); rectmode(center); for (int =; <width -; ++) //for all rows for (int =; <height -; ++) { //for all columns color = img.get(, ); int xx = +int(random( -step, step)); int yy = +int(random( -step, step)); //set(xx, yy, ); //color the pixel fill(); rect(xx -, yy -, , ); } example displacement operation // based on algorithms for visual design using the // processing language . - pimage img; int step; void setup() { img = loadimage("memorial.jpg"); size(, ); nostroke(); } void draw() { if (keypressed) image(img, , ); else { float = dist(mousex, mousey, width/, height/); step = int(map(, , , , )); for (int =; <width -; ++) //for all rows for (int =; <height -; ++) { //for all columns color = img.get(, ); int xx = +int(random( -step, step)); int yy = +int(random( -step, step)); set(xx, yy, ); //color the pixel //fill(); //rect(xx -, yy -, , ); } } } example displacement operation pimage canimg; int imagesize = ; void setup() { size(, ); // image from canimg = loadimage("campbell.jpg"); canimg.resize(imagesize, imagesize); framerate(); } void draw() { for (int =; <; ++) for (int =; <; ++) { pimage tempimg = canimg.copy(); //generate two random colors color c1 = color(random(), random(), random()); color c2 = color(random(), random(), random()); float threshold = map(mousex, , width, , ); for (int =; <canimg.pixels.length; ++) { if (brightness(canimg.pixels[])>threshold) tempimg.pixels[] = c1; // bright pixels else tempimg.pixels[] = c2; // dark pixels } //tint(random(), random(), random()); image(tempimg, *imagesize, *imagesize); } } example
ge1121 the chado and japanese spirit in chinese context the importance of knowing the right way. the master said, "if man in the morning hear the way, he may die in the evening without regret. the pursuit of truth should raise man above being ashamed of poverty. the master said, " scholar, whose mind is set on the way, and who is ashamed of bad clothes and bad food, is not fit to be discoursed with." the daoist universe water engenders wood wood engenders fire fire engenders earth eerth engenders mental metal engenders water wather overcomes fire fire overcomes mental metal overcomes wood wood overcomes earth earthe overcomes water this philosophy is basic to the emphasis the chinese have placed on balance rather than on extremes. in chinese context the way that can be told of is not an unvarying way; the names that can be named are not unvarying names. it was from the nameless that heaven and earth sprang; the named is but the mother that rears the ten thousand creatures, each after its kind. do in chinese context truth, principle. morality, morals. morality and justice. confucian school of philosophy. appears as if one were person of high morals. what is prior to physical form pertains the dao, and what is subsequent to physical form pertains to concrete objects(the phenomenal world). its worthy to notice that confucian emphasizing to approach the dao by hearing . however, while chinese dao indicates metaphysical and abstract existence. japanese do always implies some practices or actions. therefore, it is possible for everybody who can create his/her own do. what is the japanese ? : the way of the warrior : flower arrangement. (ikebana) : calligraphy : tea ceremony : swordsmanship : archery : the soft way : meeting/energy/way : the way of the color : the way of the yakuza the homosexual love between samurai the way of outlaw ( ) the artisanal spirit or craftsmanship ?=jkerhknrods the establishment of spirits in japan the kamakura period corresponds roughly to the span of the song dynasty ( -) and is named after the city of kamakura, the seat of government. the period began in , when minamoto no yoritomo destroyed the taira family and established his military government through the appointment of shugo (constables,; later military governors) to provinces, and jito (stewards) to shoen (landed estates) and kokugaryo (lands administered by provincial governments). distinguishing characteristics of the period are the rise to political power of the provincial warrior class ( bushi , samurai ) and the establishment of military government; the emergence of new and strongly proselytizing sects of buddhism and the spread of buddhism from the aristocracy to the common people; and new vitality in literature and the fine arts. have your whole heart bent on single purpose even if all of sudden your head is cut off, you will have fulfilled your one great distinguished service. the death of nitta yoshisada can stand as proof. it looked as if he just fell over from lack of courage. for examples from recent times, there was the distinguished service of men such as ono doken . this is just matter of being completely intent on what one is doing, with ones whole heart bent on single purpose. if one just raises the great impudent thought that for the sake of bushido will even become ghost or an evil spirit! , then even when ones head falls from ones body one will not die. hagakure , yamamoto tsunetomo zen buddhism and one the training and practice is focused on the person of the master, because it is believed that instruction from master can awaken in disciple the buddha -nature () that everyone possesses. based on mondos (), or brief dialogues between master and disciple, zens particular method of instruction entails simply pointing to the truth, the eternal now, without interposing ideas and notions about it. for the zen master, the best way to express ones deepest experiences is by the use of paradoxes that transcend opposites. social classes and relations (china) first class government officials second class famers third class artisan and tradesmen forth class merchants social classes and relations (japan) first class government officials second class famers third class artisan and tradesmen forth class merchants the proper classes of things are not of two kinds. hence, the person with understanding picks the one right object and pursues it single -mindedly. the farmer is expert in regard to the fields, but cannot be made overseer of fields. the merchants is expert in regard to the markets, but cannot be made overseer of merchants. the craftsman is expert in regard to vessels, but cannot be made overseer of vessels. there is person who is incapable of any of their three skills, but who can be put in charge of any of these offices, namely the one who is expert in regard of the way, not the one who is expert in regard to things. one who is expert in regard to things merely measures one thing against another. one who is expert in regard to the way measures all things together. thus, the gentlemen pursues the way single -mindedly and uses it to guide and oversee things. if one pursues the way single -mindedly, then one will be correct. if one uses it to guide one in examining things, then one will have keen discernment. if one uses correct intentions to carry out discerning judgments, then the myriad things will all obtain their proper station. do spirits and the modernization of japan and china chinese dao: mystical, abstract concept. approaching through meditation. japanese do: daily life, practice, detailed behavior. approaching through action. when we bury ourselves in our awareness of the behavioral self and observe ourselves from the perspective of nothingness , all beings will naturally sense their own self and start to express themselves. weekly readings (weeks -) davies, . & ikeno , . the japanese mind: understanding contemporary culture. tokyo: tuttle. [library -book] see the chapters of () japanese sense of beauty, () the do spirit of japan, () the japanese sense of seasons koshiro, . (). the wabi aesthetic through the ages. in .. varley & . kumakura (eds.). tea in japan: essays on the history of chanoyu , pp. -. honolulu : university of hawaii press. [library -book] see chapter
hardware hacking [sm3610 semb /] dr alvaro cassinelli (thu)office: m6028email: acassine@cityu.edu.hklecture 5event detectionhardware interruptphoto-interruptersdistance sensors & theremin + simple assignment to be submitted on l8 ( march) but first, for those who scrapped large loudspeakeryou cannot connect it directly to digital pin (tone or pwm). it will use too much current (its resistance is very low), and the arduino could be damaged if they are small, should be ok though, like with led without resistor)you can use current limiting resistor (like the led), but this will make the sound weak the simplest is to use transistor(we will see that soon, needed for motors!) (and obviously, if you want something better, there are amplifier breakout modules) rotary encoderslaser tripwire alarms event detection, real time control (speed, position) magnetic levitation high speed photography .. triggered by light, sound, etc note:how to trigger the camera (using ir remote for instance): many projects out there: detecting an eventwith an analog signal, use threshold(after calibration)we may want to detect an event only on rising edge, falling edge, or both (change)(use state variable to detect what kind of change happened) : lighting bolt photography optocoupler example : photo-interrupter very similar to what you did with the photoresistor (ldr), but with led source always on. it can detect when the beam is cut, or the color of the surface (reflection). phototransistorcan be used for better speed. line follower robot...line follower robot (minimum two reflectance photointerrupters problem:if we sample the signal in the loop() (continuous polling) we may miss fast event! what to do? external interrupt events? last_statenew_statesampling periodnot detected!okproblemwith continuous polling or even timing interrupt for event detection: for events that happen fast, polling may not work: the sampling rate must be infinitely fast as the event may happen between polls! to the rescue: hardware external interrupts very useful for reacting instantly to an external event, without the need of polling polling (what we have been using)external interrupt interrupt service routine (isr)switches, photography trigger, rotary encoders, alarms... arduino external interrupts note: the int-capable pin depend on the board; its number number ( or ) bears no relation with the pin number: the interrupt service routine (isr) should be short, or the main loop will never execute (if the isr is called often). hence the use of flag variables (bool) in certain cases (for instance, sending something in the serial port). inside the isr,delay()wont work and millis()will not increment. serial data received while in the function may be lost. declare volatileany variable that you modify within the attached function.important notes when using interrupts what about using ext int on an analogsignals?an external interrupt is digitalsignal: that means that the threshold() is fixed, and you cannot calibrate. highlowyou need to threshold* the analog signal by an external electronic circuit ( circuit that let you choose the threshold). this is called comparator.fortunately, many analog sensors breakout boards come with that circuit and give you already /5v digital signal.(*) another way would be to choose the resistor in the ldr voltage divider so that the voltage goes from less than .8v to more that 2v around the light condition you want to detect.pir motion sensor with digital output set the input at input_pullupset an external interrupt on falling edge (negative logic because of input pullup)use timing variable (unsigned long) to keep track of the last time you detected push (note that you dont need state variable to keep track of the previous pin state: the interrupt trigger at falling edge automatically)accept it if certain amount of time passed. in that case, update the last push time.fortunately, the solution is the same than before -keep track of the last even time:external interrupts and bouncing?remember the button bouncing problem?external interrupt trigger will trigger the isr at everybounce!okok?!bouncing! ... so short! (because we dont need to manually detect falling edge on the digital pin)example proper toggle with interrupts note: these lines could be in the isr since execution is quick. you cannot use serial.print() here for instance ok minimum debounce_timenonook distance sensors (aka rangefinders) lidarradarsonar1) based on time of flight measuring time of flight (light, sound) absolutely needs interrupts! note: based on triangulation or computer vision (photogrammetry, stereovision) haptic radar ultrasonic distance sensor detects the distance of the closest object in front of the sensorit works by sending out burst of ultrasound pulse ( ping) andmeasuring the time for the echo to come back. in fact, the one we have here (hc-sr04) is basically speaker and microphone working in the ultrasound range! hc-sr04 ultrasound range sensor hc-sr04 note: the device does some processing already. it measures the delay, and communicates the data to the arduino by maintaining voltage in the echo pin width is proportional to the distance of the object. this is not exactly how we would do it if we had to build sonar from scratch. however, we need to measure delay anyway (the echo pulse width) without using library and using interrupts. 26a small pulse on trig pin, for duration of 10usset an external interrupt on change to start counting time (in us), and to stop counting. start counterstop counterduration echo, proportional to distance using the sonar by measuring pulse duration bonus: using serial to send data to arduino: note the bonus: sending data to the arduino using serial port. ... of course, there is library check the values on the serial plotter, in particular maximum and minimum.check the values every cm: is it linear or not? hands-on: ultrasonic thereminnote: frequency proportional to the distance is interesting but will not correspond to the notes of chromatic scale.use instead an indexed array and transform the distance into the index (need some calibration, see next slide)note: pentatonic scale sounds always cool: mid term assignementdeadline w9 - october (!)secret knock: measure the intervals between knocks and then recognize the same pattern. youcanfindthisallovertheinternet.whatiwantis() use interrupts; () try othersensor (light? sound?); () if possible, buildthisbyhackingatoyorsomething.zoetrope: this is essentially stroboscope that flashes as function of the speed of rotation. () you wont use motor, but spin something (ex: an hd disk). compute the speed using photosensor and led; () use your skills of animation/3d printing.... or some other interesting hack! (check with me) hint do proper debouncing without blocking delay (create function that returns boolean)use an external interrupt and call the function above (set global variable to true)in l6 you will learn about solenoids and motors. make the solenoid move as the green led goes on, or do something original (too many examples online of this) such as repeating the rhythm, inverting it, etc. secret knock: measure the intervals between knocks and then recognize the same pattern assignment help: ()knock detection with interruptsyou know how to properly debounce switch (for the secret knock input) using continuous polling ( cleaned the code in the next slide).however, using external interrupts on falling edge (for button), you dont need to keep track of previous and present switch state (and you dont have to care about the sampling rate). how to use the interrupt on an analog signal? if the knock is strong enough, then you dont need to threshold it (code or electronics), and you can use rising interrupt. the code is.. the same than before (also in next slides) the following slides will walk you through the problem... reminder: switch debouncing withexternal interrupt (on falling edge) ... so short!(because we dont need to manually detect falling edge on the digital pin) code knock detection withexternal interrupt (on rising edge) advantage: super reactivedisadvantage: cannot set threshold because the interrupts are digital pins in an arduino uno, only one interrupt at time ) use state variables for different modes. example record mode: ) listening mode: if there is no knock detected after sec (for instance), go to listening mode. press button to enter record modeyou have, say, seconds to create your sequence of tapswait until first knock, then start recording the time intervals between knocks using millis(), and save them into an unsigned long array ) check the pattern using ratiosof intervals: how to submit the assignment: ) document on your personal notion page: the circuit (schematics) explaining (briefly) how it works picture of your circuit (clear shots!). you can also have sequence of shots explaninghow to build it. your arduino sketch with comments! (without comments its not acceptable) video no longer than minutes, uploaded to notion (or link to youtubeor vimeo), demonstrating the proper working (record phase, recognizing phase)note: you can add questions and ideas at the end (your inquisitiveness and engagement will be evaluated)) submit on canvas the following: pdf (with name and id in the file name wont read it otherwise) containing the above information (if you documented on notion properly, then its simply exporting this page) you are expected to work independently. can easily detect plagiarism () power electronics: transistor, darlington array() electromagnet, dc motor, stepper, servo() motor drivers and shields (-bridge)next week (lesson )
sept 2021sm2704 cms ii class takashi ito grim, spacy, frame rate 3frame rate, also known as frame frequency and frames per second (fps), is the frequency (rate) at which an imaging device produces unique consecutive images called frames. the term applies equally well to film and video cameras, computer graphics, and motion capture systems. the human visual system: to fps early silent film: to fps mid to late 1920s: to fps sound film to : fps thomas edison: minimum fps peter jackson: high frame rate fps slow motion typically this style is achieved when each film frame is captured at rate much faster than it will be played back. when replayed at normal speed, time appears to be moving more slowly. term for creating slow motion film is overcranking which refers to hand cranking an early camera at faster rate than normal (.. faster than frames per second). real estate listing | january film stockphotographic film is strip or sheet of transparent plastic film base coated on one side with gelatin emulsion containing microscopically small light- sensitive silver halide crystals. the sizes and other characteristics of the crystals determine the sensitivity, contrast and resolution of the film. real estate listing | january adam magyar stainless 7the way of seeing john bergerevery image embodies way of seeing. even photograph. for photographs are not, as is often assumed, mechanical record. every time we look at photograph, we are aware, however slightly, of the photographer selecting that sight from an infinity of other possible sights. this is true even in the most casual family snapshot. the photographers way of seeing is reflected in his choice of subject. the painters way of seeing is reconstituted by the marks he makes on the canvas or paper. first hugmads nissen 2the way of seeing john bergerno other kind of relic or text from the past can offer such direct testimony about the world which surrounded other people at other times. in this respect, images are more precise and richer than literature. to say this is not to deny the expressive or imaginative quality of art, treating it as mere documentary evidence; the more imaginative the work, the more profoundly it allows us to share the artists experiences of the visible. 3the way of seeing john bergerno other kind of relic or text from the past can offer such direct testimony about the world which surrounded other people at other times. in this respect, images are more precise and richer than literature. to say this is not to deny the expressive or imaginative quality of art, treating it as mere documentary evidence; the more imaginative the work, the more profoundly it allows us to share the artists experiences of the visible. when we see landscape, we situate ourselves in it. if we saw the art of the past, we would situate ourselves in history. 7the way of seeing john bergerperspective makes the single eye the center of the visible world. everything converges on to the eye as the vanishing point of infinity. the visible world is arranged for the spectator as the universe was once thought to be arranged for god. according to the convention of perspective, there is no visual reciprocity. there is no need for god to situate himself in relation to others: he is himself the situation. the inherent contradiction in perspective was that it structured all images of reality to address single spectator who, unlike god, could only be in one place at time. 8the double screenmulti-perspective in chinese painting frame in frame meaning double screen the crystal- imagenostalghia, andrel tarkovsky, kion eyeim an eye. mechanical eye. , the machine, show you world the way only can see it. free myself for today and forever from human immobility. im in constant movement. approach and pull away from objects. creep under them. move alongside running horses mouth. fall and rise with the falling and rising bodies. this is , the machine, maneuvering in the chaotic movements, recording one movement after another in the most complex combination. freed from the boundaries of time and space, co- ordinate any and all points of the universe, wherever want them to be, my way leads towards the creation of fresh perception of the world. thus explain in new way the world unknow to you dziga vertov the man with the movie camera, dziga vertov, 4the way of seeing john bergerthe camera showed that the notion of time passing was inseparable from the experience of the visual (except in paintings). what you saw depended upon where you were when. what you saw was relative to your position in time and space. it was no longer possible to imagine everything converging on the human eyes as on the vanishing point of infinity. 5the way of seeing john bergerwhen painting is reproduced by film camera it inevitably becomes material for the film-makers argument. film that reproduces images of painting leads the spectator, through the painting, to the film-makers own conclusions. the painting lends authority to the film-makes. this is because film unfolds in time and painting does not. in film the way one image follows another, their succession, constructs an argument which becomes irreversible. zea2 zea, andre leduc and jean-jacques leduc, time shoot in week plot party? photography vs cinematography the framing of the photography is the same of the cinematography? wavelenght, michael snow, camera? non-camera? do we need camera to capture the image? where is the camera? text text become part of the image frame size fb/ instagram frame size li yue' video, 8play with difference cameras 9play with frameuse the paper to create your only frame size shooting with the frame size you created position the frame in the room - how you see the world
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session handling family tension concepts to learn concepts about self family value communication two -way communication verbal communication activity rank order the following according to their importance to you (=least important, =most important). for examples: friends/ friendship lover/ romance family work power / status / freedom others family values different people see the importance of family differently, because people need family to different extent, and for different reasons. and what defines family in your view ?father and mother love you? how about auntie? values of family family is: people making factory (virginia stair) childs first socialization agent haven in heartless world family may provide: identity and sense of belonging protection, support, and reassurance familiarity and sense of certainty unconditional love learning family values is this picture your ideal? values of family how important do you place your family in your life? if you are asked to give rating from to to indicate how important your family is to you, where is the least important and is the most important, what is the number? could you give any examples to support your answer? how high do you think your parents see family ? if you are asked to give rating from to to indicate how important your parents see your family, where is the least important and is the most important, what is the number? similarly, could you give any examples to support your answer? please answer these questions in assignment . what are our parents expectations on me? .please write down your names (both chinese and english), if they are the names given by your parents. .what are the meanings of each word in your name(). if you are unsure the meaning of each word, please have an internet search, if necessary, to find out their meanings. do they represent any expectations from your parents? sociogram, moreno () mefather brotherfriend nieceauntmother it is graphic representation of the structure of interpersonal relations in group situation what is your relationship with family members? .by using the sociogram provided, please draw different circles to indicate .the current relationship with your family members at present. ii.the expected relationship with your family members ideally . .can you find any gap in terms of relationship quality (or social distance) between the current and the expected relationship with your family members? .how far is the gap? ii.what is the implication to you from this observation above? dance with my father never dreamed that he would be gone from me aldrich lloyd talonding -dance with my father with musical background on stage! (his father died of cancer at aged in june in the phillippines ) dance with my father by luther vandross (with lyrics) dance with my father back when was child before life removed all the innocence my father would lift me high and dance with my mother and me and then spin me around 'till fell asleep then up the stairs he would carry me and knew for sure was loved if could get another chance another walk another dance with him ' play song that would never ever end how ' love love love to dance with my father again when and my mother would disagree to get my way would run from her to him he' make me laugh just to comfort me yeah yeah then finally make me do just what my mama saidlater that night when was asleep he left dollar under my sheet never dreamed that he would be gone from me if could steal one final glance when final step one final dance with him ' play song that would never ever end cause ' love love love to dance with my father again sometimes ' listen outside her door and ' hear how mama would cry for him ' pray for her even more than me ' pray for her even more than me know ' praying for much to much but could you send her the only man she loved know you don' do it usually but dear lord she' dying to dance with my father again every night fall asleep and this is all ever dream when the tree wants to be still, but finds the wind keeps blowing; when one wants to repay his parents, but finds they are no more any thoughts about your parents? could you please think of any incidents with your parents in the past that they still impressed you very much at this moment? are there any moments of conflict? what are / were the conflicts? what do you think is/are the reasons for these conflicts ? what will be different if you try to understand this conflict from your parents perspectives? self-reflection exercise: applying an other -orientation to family relationships effective other -orientation requires consideration of your parents backgrounds: their treatment as children by their parents, siblings, and other relatives; their education and work experiences; and finally, the community and historical era in which they were raised. imagine that you are writing biography of your parents . ask them about their upbringing, their childhood experiences, their education, their friends, their challenges doing so, of course, while using your best listening skills. talk to your uncles, aunts, grandparents, parents friends, or older siblings to gain more complete perspective on your parents. socially decenter by putting yourself in their situation, imagining what it would have been like to grow up as they did, to work and raise family. the goal of such reflections is to understand your parents behaviors and the choices they have made in creating family and raising you . (beebe et al., : ) about the past of yourself / your parents whatever kind of parenting we had, our parents also are who they are because of their own life experiences, including the way they were raised. (francine shapiro, :) be gracious be forgiving be hopeful about the past of yourself / your parents there is no saint with past, no sinner without future ? --st. augustine an early christian theologian grace: loving the unlovely, forgiving the unforgivable change is always possible you have choice! one -way communication: it usually takes less time; but it is less accurate; level of confidence of receiver is lower; there is more frustration in the receiver. two -way communication: it takes more time, but tends to be more accurate; level of confidence of receiver is higher; the sender may be more frustrated in the process. it promotes mutual understanding between the sender and the receiver; it builds more cooperative relationship between the two. verbal communication it is use of words to convey information, and can convey four broad kinds of information: cognitive content -facts ( have meeting this sat) -events (your aunt is coming this sat too) -people (, mum, family, group mates) -things (project, dinner)affective content -open or latent (open: am angry; latent: dont want this to happen neither (guilty)) -feelings and emotions(ok! ill give up) -expressed (we cant settle due to schedule crash) -implied (relative importance of family to school work)-power ( am your mother, you have to listen to me) -control (group meeting is collective decision that cannot be changed by me)four kinds of contents relationship content meaning contentthe implication is even simple statement can convey rich content verbal communication how many kinds of content can you identify? can you see what is hidden in the content? what do you think is the parents perspective?the implication is even simple statement can convey rich content to manage verbal communication is to handle conveying and perceiving of the different kinds of content your aunt will visit us next week from canada and we will have dinner with her. why cant you come together but only saying that you have to prepare for the quiz? dont you belong to this family? your aunt has not visited us for years! if you dont come this time, dont come home ever! improving verbal communication .do not focus on only one kind of content: dont come home ever! can mean many things .pay attention to content that reflects the deepest needs: try this : know you feel disappointed on me? (respond to affective content) or this: know you mean you very much need me to come? (respond to meaning content) .focus on the positive side you care so much im part of the family so much want to come let me try sorting it out conclusions do not do unto those close to you which you would not have done unto others who are not so close to you . (tal ben -shahar) dont take for granted of the love of your family members / not to vent your negative emotions to your family members, especially your parents. conclusions often the root of conflict is very simple: people are different in what they value and people (including yourself) dont like their values being confronted . two way communication may cost more efforts , but it helps building mutual understanding . it is useful to pay more attention to hidden content in communication, and to respond positively to content which reflects persons deep need. with understanding and respect it is possible to live with value differences. references to know more about positive psychology: ben-shahar, tal. (). happier: learn the secrets to daily joy and lasting fulfillment . new york: mcgraw -hill. ben-shahar, tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life . new york: mcgraw -hill. to know more about other -oriented communication: beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. to know more about family values: carpio, . (..). family friend poems -real poems, real people, real life. family friend poems - real poems, real people, real life. retrieved january , , from to know more about types of conflicts: lane, . . (). ch . interpersonal conflict . interpersonal communication: competence and contexts (pp. -). boston: pearson/ & . to know more about verbal communication: johnson, . . (). ch . increasing your communication skills. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self -actualization (9th ed., pp. -). boston: pearson & . carnegie, . (). how to win friends & influence people (rev. ed.). new york: pocket books. west, . ., & turner, . . (). ch . communicating verbally. understanding interpersonal communication: making choices in changing times (2nd ed., international ed., pp. -). boston: wadsworth ;cengage learning.
understanding diagrams . diagrams are ideas made concrete/ .constructive visual thinking in design process/ . creating conceptual diagrams . solving impossible problems creativity seems impossible to study. first, we dont know what it means. and second, whatever it means, it goes on in the mind, invisibly. it maybe just wild ideas, unusual associations, or weird combinations know ideas. although it may sound paradoxical, creativity is constrained. thus, creativity has two components in development: divergence and convergence. and this process is in cycle, looping instead of divergence rst and convergence nal. and this process is to solve some problem, simple or complicated. . sketches reveal thought sketches/ diagrams are exactly that, schematic. they convey an idea of what is in designer' mind, but they are inexact and incomplete. they aim to omit detail that hasnt been worked out or that is irrelevant. in emphasizing the essential aspects of the design they may exaggerate and distort, or even omit others. the schematic nature of diagrams also invites inferences and enables revisions, and is used as tools for thought instead of presentation for nal product. . context blobs are vague shapes, indicating 2d or 3d objects that may take more de nite shapes. because these schematic forms readily take on meanings that vary with their context, they are useful and used across broad range of sketches and diagrams in different disciplines. . ideas the basic structure of broad range of sketches is nodes and links, where nodes are typically visible entities and links are spatial relations among them., and they form the basic elements of language of diagrams. in fact, the node-link structure is also commonly used for abstract ideas, where the nodes are virtual entities, concepts, and the links are relations among them. the applications includes concept maps, ow charts, decision trees, or visualizations of the web. the ubiquity of node-link diagrams suggests that they reflect core qualities of human thought. realized work idea in mindsketches on paper technical sketches every single encounter can change our mind and generate new design idea. therefore, sketches can record our thinking process and help speed up the revision. we know the final dress would not be only yellow and white dots. the distribution and cutting still has to be nalized and modi ed in later stages.pinterest.com . sketches foster collaboration sketches, as we have seen, make ideas public, and the invisible visible. this is the externalization of thought onto paper, where it can be inspected and reinspected, which eases communication. sketches are more permanent than speech, and ideas structured on paper are more interpretable than ideas conveyed in words only. they provide physical model that can be internalized to mental one. . sketches promote inferences and new ideas each step in creating sketch or diagram is process of creative thinking. but creativity also relies on going beyond what is in sketch, in making inferences, seeing implications, altering and recombining elements, and more. getting the sketch right gets the thinking right. the signi cance of conceptual sketch is not the exact spatial quality but should contain the idea through annotation. therefore, descriptive sentence and speculative images are more important in this stage. size/ scale (approximate) juxtaposed (close) relations interlocked (linked) separated (connected by third agent) drawstringblog.wordpress. artbusiness. dfurnituredesign. things in others' eyes: always different artist architect furniture mind sketch static vs dynamic.some methods to represent the relations or ? are the the same? can be or cannot be? however, starting from microcosm is also possible since many cases has demonstrated that great design came out from scenario or small area, and by expending outwards to larger scale.working from microcosm to macrocosm . idea2. concept . to have an idea first. assume we want to draw chair, we would draw chair first, usually common prototype we see in daily live. . concept is the concretized process for an idea (what' the color, shape, size and material for the chair). concept is an expanded process for an idea.. selection . select the design solutions with the fulfillment of both the idea and concepts. (aim)(goals). re ning . by understanding the requirements, pros and cons, exclude alternatives to fewer options, followed by further developements.. completion ( times)(with critiques) vagueconcrete idea rst vague concept scribble on paper visually scan and constructively interpret the scribble. + / consolidate and extend to the next design stage()concept rst step : the visual concept is formed would like to design place for both children and their parents to spend time happily. also, the palce shall promote communication. step : externalization (starting point established) will have place housing the activities for both children and their parents, like an eatery or mcdonald'. step : constructive critique (questions being asked for the concept) ) children is usually open to talk, but adult isn'. what might bring adult more willing to talk? ) when the adult (supposed to be father) is having beer, what food is good for the kids? beer and bar? (space for) an ice-cream car step : consolidation and extension well, after having all the items that suited for the idea that wish, have to tie them up and create an integrated and re ned picture (diagram). step : design landmark after scribbling, dynamic landmark was sketched. thought: there might be an observation deck at the top level to overlook the surrounding landscape !!! perceptual critique for the sketches step : different uses are considered the programme (monument or accomodation?)thought: if it is an observation tower, the spatial quality must be carefully considered.thought: if it is monument, people shall not go inside instead of looking from ground level. perceptual critique for the sketches step : critiques if it is....what' the consequence and impact brought?thought: would it be too structurally unstable? too complex to create circulations?thought: if the tower supposed to serve for many people, scale of the building must be increased !!! shahinshah.com looking at sketches imagining in head suc mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmeeechechechechecheechechechechecechechecechechechechechececeececheceanianiananaanananananianianinianianninianiananiaianniasmsmsmssmsmmsmmmmmsmsmsmsmsssmsmsssmsmmmmsssssssms isisisisisisisisississssssssssscalccccccccled cogggnitiivvvevevevevevevevevevevevevevevevevvveveevevvvevevevvveevvevvvvvvvvvevevvvvvvevvvvevvvvevveewawawawawawawawawawaawawwaawawawwawawawawwawaaawwwwwlktlktlktlktlktlktkttlktlktlktlktlllktllhrohrohrohrohrohrohrohrohrohrohrorohrororohrororohrohrrorooorooooororooorooooooooroooughughughughughughughughughghghughughughughughughghughughughgughughughughughgugughughhughughghhhhughhhhhhhhhughuggughugughhhhhhhughuggugughhuughughhuuuguuggg, , , , , , aa, , , aa, , ,, , aaaa, aa, aa, ,, , , aaa, aaa, aaaaa aaaaa, aaaaaa, , aaaa,aaa, aaa,, aa, , , allllllthlllltltlltllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllltlllltllttough it itakaaaesss ssssssssssssss sssss sssssssssssss sssssssssstimtimtimtimtimtimtimttimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimtimimtimtimmmtimtimtimtimmmtimmtimmmmmmttimtimttimtimmmmtitimttimmtmmimmie te te tete te te te teeteteete te teteteteteetetetetetete teteteetetettetetete ttetetteteteeeteeteteteteeootototototo to tototototo tototoo too to tototototototo to too totototo totototo to tootooooooooooootooooooo to trairairairairairairairairarararairairairairairairairairiairairairairairrarairairairaiaraairairairaaaiaaaaaararairairrrararrn,,nnn,,,,,,nnnnn,,nn,,niiiitiitiitittt tit itit tt ititit iititititit tbecbecbecbecbecbebecbecbbebecbebeccccbecbececbecbecbcbcbccccbebeccbomes effeeorrtrrttrtrtrtrttrtrttrtrrtrttttrtrrtttrtttrrrtrtrtrrtttrrtttrrrrrtrrtrttttrtrtrrrrrrtrtrtttrlesleslesleslesleseleslesleslesleleslesleslesleslelesleseslelesleseleleeesleseselessleseseeesles as as as asas as as as as as asassass aaaassaasasaaaaandndndndnndndndndndndndndndnddndndndndnddndnuncuncuuununcuuncuncuncuncununcncuncncnccuuncncuncuncnccnccunccuccuccoonsonsonsonsonsonsnsnsonsosonsnsnscccccioccccccccccccccccccccccccus once yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyououououououououououououooouoouououououoooooooooouuouuareareaareareararearearearearearearearearearereeearearareaaafafafafafaffafafaffafafaffafafaaafafaffamilmilmilmilmimilmilmilmilmilmilmilmilmilmilmilmmilmilmilmilliiiariaiariariariaiariariariariarararariiariaariarrrriariaariararrrrrrwiwiwiwiiwiwiwwwiwiwwwiwiwiwiiwiwiiwith.th.th.th.th.thth.th..th.thh.thtth.th..ththh.th.hidea rst concept rst
sm3809 software art studio final projects scheduleteaching / learning questionnairepresentation: gene koganmachine learning part icoding simple neural netexperiments with ml5jssentiment analysisfinal project ideasthis week final projects machine learning what is machine learning? what makes an algorithm machine-learning algorithm? what is machine learning? what machine-learning algorithms have we seen earlier in the semester? perceptrons building neural network the problemwe have data set containing the location of buildings in neighborhood, and the number of virus cases in that building.we need to nd (straight) quarantine line to separate buildings with cases from those with none. more resources neural networks lets try to code one together dataset at the data[{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases }, ]can we use machine learning? neural networksstep (exercise) using p5js load the json dataset from the url belownormalize all values to the range between - and 1then render it onscreen as below, with locations that have cases shown in different color dataset at note: location with latitude= and longitude= should be at the center of the canvas neural networks what does neural network consist of ? what is it? how does it relate to p5.js and to tensorflow.js and to tensorflow, etc ml5.js is javascript library for doing machine learning it uses, under the surface, tensorflow.js tensorflow.js is based on tensorflow, which is written in ++ and generally used via python ml5.js (optionally) integrates with p5.js, and, very importantly, can run in the web browser ml5.js contains algorithms, models, and datasets algorithms include things like neural nets (pre-trained) models let us experiment without first doing our own training (as we did with the virus) datasets are what use to train our own models we need to think carefully about the models we use: how, why and by whom were they created? what algorithms did they use? what biases do they include? what are the terms-of-use? what about these pretrained models ? how was it trained ? what was the dataset? what kind of input does it expect ? what kinds of things does it know about ? lets look at an image classification example using the pretrained mobilenet model examine the model data & provenance lets try some codebut to work with ml5.js we should rst review callbacks and promisesworking with remember that in javascript, functions are objects. this means that we can pass them as parameters to other functions . so, we can also pass functions as parameters to other functions and call them inside the outer functions. heres an example: function dostuffthen(callback) { // do first thing // do second thing callback(); // run the callback } the dostuffthen( ) function takes another function as parameter and calls it inside. this is valid in javascript and we call it callback. so function that is passed to another function as parameter is callback function. callback functions we can also use anonymous (unnamed) functions with callbacks: dostuffthen( function() { console.log('done'); }); function dostuffthen(callback) { // do first thing // do second thing callback(); // run the callback }callback functions often callbacks follow pattern called error-rst, where we rst must handle any errors that occur (this is actually the case in ml5) // check for err, otherwise print result function callbackfun(error, result) { if (error) throw error(error); console.log("result", res); } dostuffthen(callbackfun); callback functions callback hell promises arrow functions where were weworking with
, :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of storytypes of convolution kernels :simplifiedprakhar ganeshfollowpublished int owards data science7 min readoct , 20198734an intuitive introduction to different variations of the glamorous cnn layerjust brief introconvolution is using kernel to extract certain features from an input image.let me explain. kernel is matrix, which is slid across the image andmultiplied with the input such that the output is enhanced in certaindesirable manner. watch this in action below. for example, the kernel used above is useful for sharpening the image. butwhat is so special about this kernel?? consider the two input imagearrangements as shown in the example below. for the first image, the centervalue is * + *- + *- + *- + *- = . the value got increased to . forthe second image, the output is *+ *- + *- + *- + *- = -. the value 1got decreased to -. clearly, the contrast between and is increased to , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of and -, which will in turn sharpen the image. instead of using manually made kernels for feature extraction, through deepcnns we can learn these kernel values which can extract latent features. forfurther reading into working of conventional cnns, would suggest thisblog.intuitively understanding convolutions for deep learningexploring the strong visual hierarchies that makes them worktowardsdatascience.com kernel vs filterbefore we dive into it, just want to make the distinction between the termskernel and filter very clear because have seen lot of people use theminterchangeably. kernel is, as described earlier, matrix of weights whichare multiplied with the input to extract relevant features. the dimensions ofthe kernel matrix is how the convolution gets its name. for example, in 2dconvolutions, the kernel matrix is 2d matrix. filter however is concatenation of multiple kernels, each kernel assignedto particular channel of the input. filters are always one dimension morethan the kernels. for example, in 2d convolutions, filters are 3d matrices(which is essentially concatenation of 2d matrices .. the kernels). so for acnn layer with kernel dimensions * and input channels , the filterdimensions are **. op highlight , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of common convolution layer actually consist of multiple such filters. for thesake of simplicity in the discussion to follow, assume the presence of only one filterunless specified, since the same behavior is replicated across all the filters.1d, 2d and 3d convolutions1d convolutions are commonly used for time series data analysis (since theinput in such cases is 1d). as mentioned earlier, the 1d data input can havemultiple channels. the filter can move in one direction only, and thus theoutput is 1d. see below an example of single channel 1d convolution. we already saw an example of single channel 2d convolution at the start ofthe post, so lets visualize multi channel 2d convolution and try to wrap ourheads around it. in the diagram below, the kernel dimensions are * andthere are multiple such kernels in the filter (marked yellow). this is becausethere are multiple channels in the input (marked blue) and we have onekernel corresponding to every channel in the input. clearly, here the filtercan move in directions and thus the final output is 2d. 2d convolutions arethe most common convolutions, and are heavily used in computer vision. , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of is difficult to visualize 3d filter (since its 4d dimensional matrix), so wewill discuss single channel 3d convolution here. as you can see from theimage below, in 3d convolutions, kernel can move in directions and thusthe output obtained is also 3d. searchwrite , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of of the work done in modifying and customizing cnn layers have beenfocused towards 2d convolutions only and so from this point forward willonly be discussing these variations in context of 2d convolutions.transposed convolution (deconvolution)the gif below nicely captures how 2d convolution decreases thedimensions of the input. but sometimes we need to do input processing suchas to increase its dimensions (also called upsampling). to achieve this using convolutions, we use modification known astransposed convolution or deconvolution (although it is not truly reversing aconvolution operation, so lot of people dont prefer to use this term). thedotted blocks in the gif below represent padding. think these animations give good intuition of how different up-sampledoutputs can be created from the same input, based on the padding pattern. , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of convolutions are very commonly used in modern cnn networks,mainly because of their ability to increase the image dimensions. separable convolutionseparable convolution refers to breaking down the convolution kernel intolower dimension kernels. separable convolutions are of major types. firstare spatially separable convolutions, see below for example. standard 2d convolution kernel , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of separable 2d convolutionhowever, spatially separable convolutions are not that common in deeplearning. on the other hand, depthwise separable convolutions are widelyused in light weight cnn models and provide really good performances. seebelow for example. standard 2d convolution with input channels and filters depthwise separable 2d convolution which first processes each channel separately and then applies inter-channel convolutionsbut why do separable convolutions? efficiency!! using separable convolutionscan significantly decrease the number of parameters required. with theincreasing complexity and tremendous size of deep learning networks thatwe have today, being able to provide similar performances with lowernumber of parameters is definitely requirement.dilated (atrous) convolutionas you have seen in all the convolution layers above (without exception) thatthey process all the neighboring values together. however, sometimes it , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of be in the best interest of the pipeline to skip certain input values andthis is how dilated convolutions (also called atrous convolutions) wereintroduced. such modification allows the kernel to increase its range ofview, without increasing the number of parameters. clearly one can notice from the animation above, that the kernel is able toprocess wider neighborhood with those same parameters as earlier. thisalso means loss in information because of not being able to process the fine-grained information (since it is skipping certain values). however, theoverall effect seems to be positive in certain applications.deformable convolutionconvolutions are very rigid in terms of the shape of feature extraction. thatis, the kernel shapes are only square/rectangle (or some other shape thatneeds to be manually decided) and thus they can only work on suchpatterns. what if the shape of the convolution in itself was learnable? this is thecore idea behind the introduction of deformable convolutions. , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of implementation of deformable convolution is actually verystraightforward. every kernel is actually represented with two differentmatrices. the first branch learns to predict the offset from the origin. thisoffset is an indication of what inputs around the origin will be processed.since each offset is predicted independently, they dont need to form anyrigid shape between themselves, thus allowing the deformable nature. thesecond branch is simply the convolution branch whose input is now thevalues at these offsets. whats next?there have been multiple variations of cnn layers which have been usedindependently or in combination with each other to create successful andcomplex architectures. each variation was born out of an intuition of howfeature extraction should work. thus believe that while these deep cnnnetworks learn weights that we cannot explain, the intuitions involved informing them is very important to their performance and further work inthat direction is important for success of highly complex cnns. , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of this blog is part of an effort to create simplified introductions to the field ofmachine learning. follow the complete series heremachine learning : simplifiedknow it before you dive intowardsdatascience.com or simply read the next blog in the seriesdistributed vector representation : simplifiedarguably the most essential feature representation method inmachine learningtowardsdatascience.com references[] krizhevsky, alex, ilya sutskever, and geoffrey . hinton. imagenetclassification with deep convolutional neural networks. advances in neuralinformation processing systems. .[] dumoulin, vincent, and francesco visin. guide to convolution arithmeticfor deep learning. arxiv preprint arxiv:. ().[] chen, liang-chieh, et al. deeplab: semantic image segmentation with deepconvolutional nets, atrous convolution, and fully connected crfs. ieeetransactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence . (): .[] dai, jifeng, et al. deformable convolutional networks. proceedings of theieee international conference on computer vision. .[] howard, andrew ., et al. mobilenets: efficient convolutional neuralnetworks for mobile vision applications. arxiv preprint arxiv:. ().[] learningdata scienceartificial intelligencecnndeep learning , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of by prakhar ganesh681 followerswriter for owards data sciencecomputer vision and deep learning enthusiastfollow , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of from prakhar ganesh and owards data science prakhar ganeshint owards data scienceknowledge distillation: simplifiedtake peek into the world of eacher studentnetworks4 min readaug , 20195203rahul nayakint owards data sciencehow to convert any ext into agraph of conceptsa method to convert any text corpus into aknowledge graph using mistral 7b. min readnov 103k37 marco peixeiroint owards data sciencetimegpt: the first foundationmodel for time series forecastingexplore the first generative pre-trainedforecasting model and apply it in projectwith python12 min readoct .6k22prakhar ganeshint owards data sciencehigh frequency trading (hft) withai: simplifiedtake peek into the ever-competing world ofhft and how is ai becoming part of it. min readjun , 20191322see all from prakhar ganeshsee all from owards data sciencerecommended from medium , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of from medium vaibhav rastogifully connected layerfully connected layer: min readsep 83marco peixeiroint owards data sciencetimegpt: the first foundationmodel for time series forecastingexplore the first generative pre-trainedforecasting model and apply it in projectwith python12 min readoct .6k22listspredictive modeling /python20 stories645 savespractical guides to machinelearning10 stories724 savesnatural language processing908 stories428 saveschatgpt prompts30 stories725 saves , :21types of convolution kernels : simplified | by prakhar ganesh | towards data science page of neural networks fordummiesso you want to learn about convolutionalneural networks, cnns, huh? well, youvecome to the right place. min readoct 1443lus fernando orresinlatinxinaiconvolutional neural networkfrom scratchthe most effective way of working with imagedata21 min readoct unbecoming10 seconds that ended my earmarriageits august in northern virginia, hot andhumid. still havent showered from mymorning trail run. im wearing my stay-at-home mom4 min readfeb , 202270k1009bilal_aihog vs. cnn unveiling the powerof image classificationimage classification is at the heart ofcomputer vision, enabling machines tounderstand and interpret visual data. in thisblog post, we4 min readoct 73see more recommendations helpstatusaboutcareersblogprivacyt ermst ext to speecht eams
sm3809 software art studio review, surveyguest lecture: yue-jin horegular expressionsscraping: the basicsterminal commandsurl / query-stringnetwork requestsjson / apispresentation: raven kwokworking with nodethis week critique: assignment 8presentation: raven kwok critique: assignment 8presentations the terminalquery-stringnetwork requestscurl, fetch, nodescraping basics the terminal lets practice uniform resource locators (urls) the query string scraping with node working in nodenode.js is one of the most popular platforms for js now with node, we can use any editor, then run our programs via the terminal we can also use 'npm' to install any packages or libraries we need if you dont have it already, install node on our computer, which you can do with homebrew (preferred), or via direct download from here: working in nodeonce we install node, we should be able to check the version of the node and npm commands in our terminal: this lets us know that everything is working as expected... working in nodethe npm ecosystem contains huge number of compatible programs that we can use in node.js to install with npm, we can simply use: $ npm add <package-name> for example, here is the entry for puppeteer working in nodeas an example. creating new project with node and puppeteer, involves steps: $ mkdir scraping $ cd scraping $ npm init - $ npm install puppeteer working in nodeyou should see something like this: now lets create le, then open it for editing $ touch index.js $ nano index.jsnano is text-based editor on linux systems working in nodehere is template that you can reuse for your scripts using puppeteer: let puppeteer = require('puppeteer'); (async () => { let browser = await puppeteer.launch(); // your code here await browser.close(); })(); copy/paste from the slides (or in-class-code) working in nodenow lets try to write script that goes to web page and then takes screenshot: let puppeteer = require('puppeteer'); (async () => { let browser = await puppeteer.launch(); // your code here await browser.close(); })(); now lets write script that scrapes the title from our course homepage: now lets write script that scrapes the description from the npm homepage: other refs:css selectors cheatsheet lets do some practice collecting quotations now lets try create script via the chrome recorder regular expressions regular expressions piece of software architecture intended not only to bridge but also to question. the api as software art mechanism, intended to be consumed not only by humans, but by other pieces of softwarehere, through the use of an api, intendedly secret data becomes exposed open data from the most closed of sources.jer thorp, the art of the apiapis & json request is made up of four things: the endpoint the method: get, put, post, or delete the headers: many options the data (or body): relevant for post for our purposes (reading data from an api) we will focus only on the first of these, which is the endpoint (or url).requests for more info on the above, see: the endpoint (or route) is the url you request forthe root-endpoint is the starting point of the api youre requesting from. the root-endpoint of githubs api is while the root-endpoint twitters api is path determines the resource youre requesting for: endpoint path the nal part of an endpoint is the query parameters. query parameters give you the option to modify your request with key-value pairs. they always begin with question mark (?). each parameter pair is then separated with an ampersand (&), like this:query parameters what is rest api? lets say youre trying to find videos about unicorns on youtube. you open up youtube, type unicorn into search field, hit enter, and you see list of videos about unicorns. rest api works in similar way. you search for something, and you get list of results back from the service youre requesting from. an api is an application programming interface. it is set of rules that allow programs to talk to each other. the developer creates the api on the server and allows the client to talk to it. rest determines how the api looks like. it stands for representational state transfer. it is set of rules that developers follow when they create their api. one of these rules states that you should be able to get piece of data (called resource) when you link to specific url. each url is called request while the data sent back to you is called response.the rest api browserterminal / curlbrowser console / fetch()observable / fetch()p5.js / preload()testing apis view the json weather data for this week in hk at this [url]explore how the json data is organized and structuredlater we will talk about how to fetch such data yourself, but for now just copy it and add to sketch as shown ->now create simple visualization of the weather datakata: exploring json let data; function preload(){ data = loadjson('hkweather.json'); } function setup() { createcanvas(, ); textalign(center); textsize(); } function draw() { background(); text(data.city.name, , ); } kata: using an apiread about the weather api [here]use loadjson to get the data for hong kong.explore how the json data is organized and structurednow modify your visualization to use this new data
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session getting along with roommates getting along with roommates what was your experience of living with your roommates? interviews with university students concepts to learn personality structure of self value systems empathy and perspective taking other -oriented values values are core beliefs that influence how we act . our values support the choices we make in life. (corey & corey, :) your values influence what you do; your daily behavior is an expression of your basic values . (corey & corey, :) its essential that you beware of the significant impact your value systems has on your relationships with others . (corey & corey, :) its not appropriate for you to push your values on others , to assume judgmental stance towards those who have different view, or to strive to convert others to adopt your perspective on life. (corey & corey, :) if you are secure in your values and basic beliefs, you will not be threatened by those who have different set of beliefs and values . (corey & corey, :) being other -oriented being other -oriented involves two -step process: . social decentering (consciously thinking about anothers thoughts and feelings) and . empathizing (responding emotionally to anothers feelings). to improve your ability to socially decenter and to empathize, strive for two key goals: . gather as much information as possible about the circumstances that are affecting the other persons . gather as much information as possible about the other person (beebe et al., :) chinese: other orientation complicated pattern of social interaction in which chinese are readily influenced by others on both psychological and behavioural levels . person is said to be other -oriented if he or she is especially sensitive to others opinions, standards, and criticisms, always worries about the impression that he or she will make or has made on others, and tries hard to conform to others behaviour . (yang, :) their mental health may be adversely affected by the negative comments others made about them, be such comments real or perceivedrecall adaptive to the differences there are cultural differences among the worlds people, including differences in language, food preferences, housing preferences, and host of other elements. to adapt to cultural differences in order to understand others better be other -oriented rather than self - absorbed (beebe et al., :) empathy that is, try to understand your roommates behaviors from his/her perspective with empathy, you are more able to understand your roommates behaviors and his/her uniqueness as an individual who can be very different from you. empathy and perspective taking empathy is the ability to experience how another person feels, or the ability to spontaneously identify with another on direct emotional level. effective communicationperspective taking is the ability to cognitively take another persons frame of reference for understanding the persons self, situation, or feeling state. how can we improve empathy? for empathy remind yourself to pay attention to the spontaneous emotional expressions of others (nonverbal cues) communicate in more expressive manner yourselfross buck by being expressive, person encourages the other to reciprocate, so that an expressive person in effect goes through life leaving trail of emotional expression in his/ her wake for perspective taking resist our own egocentric tendencies to define the others experience in our own terms ask others to verbalize their perspectives and then probe for details how can we improve empathy? to start practicing, the easiest way is to practice asking about feelings: what are your feelings about ? how do you feel when you do and listen to the response very attentively . conclusions the roots of interpersonal conflicts are very often simply differences between people that arise from different personalities and cultural backgrounds. conflicts are always reciprocal. never believe it is only the other persons fault. react with empathy. think and feel in others perspective before you judge and before you act. conclusion when we appreciate, the good grows . when we dont appreciate, the good depreciates . there is no perfect relationship, no perfect person, etc. the important thing is to focus on what is working appreciate it so that it appreciates so many people wonder why they are not happy enough even though they have all the things that they want in their lives. why? because there can be too many of good thing . .., two pieces of your favourite music play together noise to cultivate relationships means to invest in them, to put time into them, to share, to open up. movies end when love begins . its about cultivating the relationship after the screen comes down, after the sun set thats where the investment, thats where the return of investment comes. (tal ben -shahar ) conclusion/for further reflection the golden rules: universal value??? .., hinduism : this is the sum of duty: do nothing to others that would cause pain if done to you. buddhism : one should seek for others the happiness one desires for one self. consider others as yourself. (the buddha) confucianism : is there one principle that ought to be acted on throughout ones whole life? surely it is the principle of loving -kindness: do not unto others what you would not have them do unto you./ do not do unto others what you would not have done unto yourself ( , ) (beebe et al., :) conclusion/for further reflection the golden rules: christianity : do unto others as you would have others do unto you . (luke( ), :) so in everything, do to others what you would have them do to you, for this sums up the law and the prophets . (matthew( ),:) thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself . have love for your neighbour as for yourself ( ). (matthew ( ), : ) (beebe et al., :) conclusion the platinum rule : do to others as they themselves would like to be treated . (milton bennett, communication researcher ) rather than treating people as you would like to be treated, interact with others the way you think they would like to be treated. [ dont impose your own values / views upon others! dont project your own feelings on to others! ] to be other - oriented (beebe et al., :) references to know more about positive psychology: ben-shahar , tal. (). happier: learn the secrets to daily joy and lasting fulfillment . new york: mcgraw -hill. ben-shahar , tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life . new york: mcgraw - hill. to know more about how to become other -oriented beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. to know more about values: corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole. to know more about personality: burger, . . (). personality (7th ed., pp. -). australia: thomson/wadsworth. to know more about empathy and perspective taking: trenholm , ., & jensen, . (). ch5. relational competence. interpersonal communication (6th ed., pp. -). new york: oxford university press. to know more about the perspective taking experiment: galinsky , . ., magee, . ., inesi , . ., & gruenfeld , . . (). power and perspectives not taken. psychological science , , .
week 4the structure of beauty or the beauty of structure? introductioneverything has its beauty, but not everyone sees it. confuciusq: what is beauty? pure chaospure orderelaborate structuresfree jazzmusique concretebaroque, fuguedroneohm...controlled chaoselemental structuresgregorian chantnoise musicromanticart and science enhance our capacity to appreciate beauty! highly associativedeep knowledgedeep patternsdeep contemplativepattern-less trascendent patternseveryday beautynormal state of perceptionordinary patterns sublime sensitivitycultural sophistication, aesthetics development is beauty universal? what generates beauty? the universalist conception of beauty/aesthetics vs. relativistic: different tastes concerning beauty not only between individuals but between cultures and eras in history. philosopher immanuel kants critique of judgement provided an account of aesthetic judgement which are entirely dependent on subjective taste. the philosopher david hume, within his solipsistic philosophy, also argued that beauty is similarly subjective and matter of personal taste and feeling that cannot be shared by others. scientists talk about beauty in the structure of the universe, mathematics, etc. and some study the phenomena from the neuroscience'sperspective. this may be one point of origin for the historicalsplit between art and science: science holds to the idea of universal laws explaining the perception of beauty based on mathematics and geometry (ie. golden ratio), while art ascribes to kantian definition of aesthetics beauty based on judgements of taste which are entirely subjective. the sublime one key category of beauty is the sublime. in kants observations on the beautiful and the sublime he distinguishes between noble, splendid and the terrifying sublime as category of beauty. later in his critique of aesthetic judgement, he would claim that beauty is connected with form while the sublime is formless and boundless.caspar david friedrichmark rothko symmetryregularityharmonysimplicity = beauty symmetry is one of the most perceptually salient properties of visual images. because of this, symmetry has been recurring feature in art, architecture and other artifacts of human construction for centuries () nature createpatterns using these elements (why?)human see these elements everywhere(why?) psychometric examination ofpareidolia, the active pattern of perceiving objects, shapes, or scenery as meaningful things to the observer' experience, the most common being faces or other pattern of forms that are not present at the time of the observation (wikipedia)rorschach testsymmetry triggers imagination! exercisetake your picture and make two symmetric versions (did you do it?). mix it with faces from your friends. in william . benton patented the duality mirror, which showed how faces would look with two perfectly symmetrical right or left halves. symmetry elements (plane)translationrotationreflection symmetry operations of pattern form what mathematicians call agroup: if you follow one operation in the group by second operation in the group, then the combined operation is again in the group. the rubiks cube group is group {\displaystyle (,\cdot )} that represents the structure of the rubik' cube mechanical puzzle. each element of the set {\displaystyle } corresponds to cube move, which is the effect of any sequence of rotations of the cube' faces. inmathematics,physicsandchemistry, aspace groupis thesymmetry groupof configuration in space, usually inthree dimensions.[]in three dimensions, there are distinct types, or ifchiralcopies are considered distinct. trying to see simplicity in complexity with sciences help... it has been claimed that all seventeen of these groups are represented in thealhambrapalace ingranada,spain.girihtilesare set of fivetilesthat were used in the creation ofislamic geometric patterns think about this scientific discover as way to have more tools to appreciate and create!tilingswithtranslational symmetryin two independent directions can be categorized bywallpaper groups, of which exist: no more and no less. stone relief with arabesquesof tendrils,palmettesand half-palmettes in theumayyad mosque(damascus,syria)tiles inside thejame mosque of yazd, persia ornament,nineveh,assyria paintedporcelain,china escher: hexagonal tessellation with animals:study of regular division of the plane with reptiles(). egyptiandesign with wallpaper groupp4mplanar symmetrieshave for millennia been exploited in artworks such ascarpets, lattices, textiles and tilings, everywhere. spacetime symmetriesare features ofspacetimethat can be described as exhibiting some form ofsymmetry. the role ofsymmetry in physicsis important in simplifying solutions to many problems. spacetime symmetries are used in the study ofexact solutionsofeinstein' field equationsofgeneral relativity. supersymmetry and... the theory of everything! maurits cornelis escher( june march ) was dutchgraphic artistwho mademathematically inspiredwoodcuts,lithographs, andmezzotints.escher: an artist mathematician (friend of . penrose)his tools: ...tesselation, recursion, symmetry, infinity, transformation, hyperbolic geometry.. exerciseidentify and documents tessellation patters around you (floor, street, plants, etc).describe: regular or not, hexagonal, etcinvent yours! (we will study and classify them together) balance? symmetry? symmetryis very formal type of balance consisting of mirroring of portions of an image. bilateral symmetry, that is, two-sided symmetry, is the most common, in which two halves of work of art mirror each other, as in peruginos painting,christ giving the keys of the kingdom to st. peter. in this painting, the symmetry gives the painting not only sense of balance, but also sense of calm, stability, and formality. notice in particular the way that the building and arches in thebackground are painted to make the work symmetrical () balance is an even use of elements throughout work of art. radial symmetryradial symmetry is created when an image is symmetrical around central point or axis, like sunflower viewed head-on. radial symmetry creates strong sense of unity in work of art, and is common in sacred images. () note: computers are goodaat that shaders demo (check shadertoys) asymmetrical balanceperfect symmetry is uncanny. contrapposto gives standing human figures sense of life and animation.perfect symmetry is not necessary to create asense of balance in an image. asymmetrical balance is created when two sides of an image do not mirror each other, but still have approximately the same visual weight, the same amount of detail or shapes or color, and so on () the classical greek sculpturedoryphoros(the spearbearer) by polykleitos provides clear example of asymmetrical balance.capturing imperfections does not necessarily diminish beauty: it makes the object unique!we notice symmetry, but we notice its breaking of symmetry even more! contrapposto posethe weight of the body is distributed onto one leg with the other leg relaxed creating an -curve composition and the impression of ponderation. the pose is also considered an example of supernormal stimuli. history moves in cyclical patterns, as we see the move from ideal forms to those more naturally observed in 3d modeled computer graphics asymmetry gives uniqueness in traditionaljapanese aesthetics,wabi-sabi()is aworld viewcentered on the acceptance oftransienceand imperfection.[]the aesthetic is sometimes described as one of appreciating beauty that is "imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete" in nature.[]it is concept derived from thebuddhistteaching of thethree marks of existence(,sanbin), specificallyimpermanence(,muj),suffering(,ku)andemptiness or absence of self-nature(,). the beauty of perfect imperfection... kintsugi (): the art of precious scars [minimalism] recognizing them uncovers the hidden beauty of the universeis seen order in the chaos => appreciating the cosmos sciences beauty: simplicity simplicity = fundamental patterns. science is perhaps all about finding them dodecahedron universe? keplers dodecahedron universe based on plato themusicauniversalis(literallyuniversal music), also calledmusic of the spheresorharmony of the spheres, is aphilosophicalconcept that regards proportions in the movements ofcelestial bodiesthesun,moon, andplanetsas form ofmusic. the theory, originating in ancient greece, was tenet ofpythagoreanism, and was later developed by 16th-century astronomerjohannes kepler. kepler did not believe this "music" to be audible, butfelt that it could nevertheless be heard by the soul. the idea continued to appeal to scholars until the end of therenaissance, influencing many schools of thought, includinghumanism.music of the spheres harmony of the world fromebenezer sibly'sastrology() note: music is all about symmetries, but describing that would take full semester in itself more hidden order: the golden ratio an incredible simple relation, yet so mysterious!! phyllotacticpatterns are some of the most conspicuous in nature. to create these patterns plants must control the divergence angle between the appearance of successive organs, sometimes to within fraction of degree. the most common angle is the fibonacci or golden angle, and its prevalence has led to the hypothesis that it has been selected by evolution as optimal for plants with respect to some fitness benefits, such as light capture. euclidean geometry and linear perspective golden ratio in the milky way pythagoras, the pentagram and golden ratio the pentagram was the adopted symbol of the pythagoreans. pentagram is made by connecting all the vertices of pentagon. the ratio of the smaller segments in relation to its larger predecessor is exactly phi or the golden ratio. the legacy of greek mathematics and the golden ratio was preserved and transmitted in the islamic world through translations, years of scholarship and art and architecture. mohammed ibn-musa al-khwarizmi composed in baghdad (in 825ce) the most influential algebraic work of the periodkitab al-jabr was al-muqa-balah (the science of restoration and reduction). al-jabr=algebraal-khwarizmi=algorithm human appropriation of an universal beauty formula lucia pacioli & leonardo da vinci: an artist scientist collaboration? pacioli wrote the divine proportionas compendium of all known mathematics as resource for artists and drew heavily from the work of pythagoras, euclid and plato while extolling the virtues of the golden ratio as the secret for creating harmonic forms for artists. his book was illustrated by leonardo da vinci who produced the first skeletal illustrations of euclidean and platonic geometric forms. myth? the golden ratio in renaissance painting while paciolis text was influential and leonardo da vincis was undoubtedly interested in geometry, there is no evidence of single painting produced in that period being based on the golden ratio... some twentieth-centuryartistsandarchitects, includingle corbusierandsalvador dal, have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio, believing this to beaestheticallypleasing. these often appear in the form of thegolden rectangle, in which the ratio of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio. the modulorin , le corbusier presented modulor to albert einstein. einstein said, "it is scale of proportions which makes the bad difficult and the good easy."le corbusier'ssearch for proportional system to create harmony resulted in the modulorbetween -. golden ratio in contemporary designall the examples in fact are 18th or 19th century retroactive appellations or contemporary, uncritically produced design manuals which suggest that the golden ratio as formula for beauty. the golden ratio can be useful as design tool for structure in compositions and layouts. .. another universal formula for evaluating human beauty??? universal formula for beauty??? universal formula for beauty??? universal formula for beauty??? what is the common criteria for beauty in these two disparate works? southern song dynasty, xia gui , pure and remote view of mountains and streams 11th century, the bayeux tapestry beauty is culturally determinedask toad what beauty is, absolute beauty, the to kalon. he will answer that it is his female, with two large round eyes sticking out of her little head, large and flat snout, yellow belly, brown back. ask negro from guinea; for him beauty is black oily skin, sunken eyes, flat nose. ask the devil; he will tell you that the beautiful is pair of horns, four claws, and tail. finally, consult the philosophers: their answer will be grandiloquent nonsense; they will ask for something conforming to the archetype of the beautiful in essence, to the to kalon.-voltaire sarah baartman and scientific racismsarah baartman( -) was khosawoman from the cape of good hope, south africa who was taken to europe, publicly exhibited and studied by prominent naturalists and scientists such as george cuvier and julien-joseph vireyas missing link in evolution. if beauty has structure then so must criminality...the flipside of applying mathematical and scientific frameworks to finding formula for beauty is that the inverse must be true, darwins theory of evolution suggested that the opposite might be possible, degeneration and criminality and miscegenation were seen as determinable through physiogomy, as seen in the work of social darwinists like thomas malthus and early criminologists like max nordau and cesare lembroso. but more on this next week... darwinian theory of beautya plausible reading of beauty has been proposed by denis dutton based on evolutionary biology. his basic argument is that the art instinct evolved in humans during the stone age pleistocene era as form of augmented sexual selection. in other words, the male peacocks feathers used to attract females, art appeals to specific hyperstimuli which trigger biological attraction between species. this also links to the notion of runaway evolution. one problem of this kind of theory is it is used to critique the supposed cultural relativism of postmodernism, which is descended from kant and humes subjectivist aesthetics, by appealing to the notion of universal, classical aesthetics, now tied to scientific theories of evolutionary biology. the alt-right, trump and neo-classical aesthetics"new federal building designs should, like america' beloved landmark buildings, uplift and beautify public spaces, inspire the human spirit, ennoble the united states, command respect from the general public, and, as appropriate, respect the architectural heritage of region," the order reads.it said that with some exceptions, the government had "largely stopped building beautiful buildings".the use of classical and other traditional architecture "should be encouraged instead of discouraged", it adds. beauty, golden ratio and conservative politics the notion of beauty, tied to classical architecture and design has become part of the meta-politics of the far right, tied tothe idea of tradition and the purity of european culture against multiculturalism and modernist architecture. kitschis art or other objects that appeal topopularrather than "high art" tastes. such objects are sometimes appreciated in knowinglyironicor humorous way.the word was first applied to artwork that was response to certain divisions of 19th-century art withaestheticsthat favoured what later art critics would consider to be exaggeratedsentimentalityandmelodrama. hence, "kitsch art" is closely associated with "sentimental art". kitsch is also related to the concept ofcamp, because of its humorous andironicnature.campis anaestheticstyle and sensibility that regards something as appealing because of its badtasteandironicvalue.camp aesthetics disrupt many ofmodernism' notions of what art is and what can be classified ashigh artby inverting aesthetic attributes such as beauty, value, and taste through an invitation of different kind of apprehension and consumption. degenerate arttotalitarian regimes prefer order over chaos, and it shows in their aesthetic tastesdegenerate art(german:entartete kunst) was term adopted in the 1920s by thenazi partyin germany to describemodern art. innovations asfauvism,cubism,dada, andsurrealismfollowingsymbolismandpost-impressionismwere considered degenerate forms. the majority of people in germany, as elsewhere, did not care for the new art, which many resented aselitist, morally suspect, and too often incomprehensible.insolent mockery of the divine under centrist rulerevelation of the jewish racial soulan insult to german womanhoodthe idealcretin and whoredeliberate sabotage of national defensegerman farmersa yiddish viewthe jewish longing for the wilderness reveals itselfin germany thenegrobecomes the racial ideal of degenerate artmadness becomes methodnature as seen by sick mindsdegenerate art exhibition("entartetekunst") was anart exhibitionorganized byadolf zieglerand thenazi partyinmunichfrom july to november . the exhibition presented works of art, confiscated from german museums, and was staged in counterpoint to the concurrent great german art exhibition beauty in contemporary art and science sian ede, art and science, technological sublime: the return of beauty in art? kimchi and chipsteamlab philosopher mario costa has proposed the category of the technological sublime in new media art, where the sublime has moved from nature, to urban landscapes, to the sense of awe generated by artworks utilizing electronic media. facial recognition and the return of scientific racism exercise : diy augmented reality notebook open any facial recognition app on your phone, and hold it to your notebook. start drawing face and see how much or in what style you need to draw it for the app to recognize face. through this exercise you can understand how facial recognition works and also create your own ar artwork in your notebook. going mistic: platonic solids and golden ratio plato would attempt to explain the structure of matter by defining regular solids in which all the faces are identical and equilateral and every solid can be circumscribed by sphere. the icosahedron and dodecahedron are related to the golden ratio. the vertices of an icosahedron can be divided into groups of . the vertices make the four corners of golden rectangle. the dodecahedron is made up of faces which are pentagrams. the centers of each pentagram can also be divided into groups of points which make the corners of golden rectangles. platonic solidsgolden rectangles inside icosahedrongolden rectangles inside dodecahedron complexity, simplicityis chaos divine symmetry too complicated for the human mind? apenrose tilingis an example of anaperiodic tiling. we will explore this in some weeks (fractals, chaos) platonic solids and golden ratio plato would attempt to explain the structure of matter by defining regular solids in which all the faces are identical and equilateral and every solid can be circumscribed by sphere. the icosahedron and dodecahedron are related to the golden ratio. the vertices of an icosahedron can be divided into groups of . the vertices make the four corners of golden rectangle. the dodecahedron is made up of faces which are pentagrams. the centers of each pentagram can also be divided into groups of points which make the corners of golden rectangles. platonic solidsgolden rectangles inside icosahedrongolden rectangles inside dodecahedron physics again: dodecahedron universe? keplers dodecahedron universe based on plato
visual expression and communication . facts about visual communication/ . what makes graphic image work? / .types of graphic / . graphic and perception/ . tactics: juxtamposition, superimposition and tessellation/ . what did you see? gestalt extension/ . some hints towards bette drawing . facts about visual communicationvisual communication is always powerful and convincing than the other formats of communication because it is instant, direct and without or with little ambiguity. . seeing is believing vision is no doubt the most dominant media we reach everyday. we see, therefore we are. even all the senses have different function, but only vision can give the presence (feeling) of whole. it captivates our souls, like daily camera for our own. ii. visualization of unknown another incomparable merit of visual communication is the presence of appearance for person, an event, or any "objects" in universe. for example, we may not know the events we did not experience. although people can report the things happened to you, you hardly imagine the exact picture without photo. (you might be able to imagine the character, dialogues but hardly for the character' details or background details). therefore, visual communication provide instant absorption of wholeness and detail. . what makes graphic image work? there are thousands kinds of methods to present graphic but the key must not necessary be new as always. one should choose the right media to present. for example, to present the facial outline we need close-up while to present the activity or movement we resort to distant view picture (choose the right media). . primary and secondary component: in term of expression and communication, primary component of graphic represents the image iteself, without evaluating the meanings and intention for the image. for example, the painting from paul cezzanne is beautiful but never tell what' beautiful. as for secondary component, it is all about the meanings and context for the painting. . lines: different results can be generated through lines, they are object, edge, crack and texture.- lines as object(): lines can be the center of interest and focus itself. similar object like rope, snake and river ow. - lines as edge: lines can be the boundary of the object, like the icon boundary, frame of picture,etc.- lines as crack: lines can be the visual interruption for the object, dissecting and directing the visual eyesight towards the opposite side. - lines as texture: ines can form pattern to ll in the suface, like mesh, wire frame and web-like structure.which one is better presented to you? why? what makes graphic image work? . viewpoint and distance: the viewing distance can basically be classi ed as random and speci . holistic image can be achieved at bringing different impact using different viewpoint, whereas specific viewpoint and distance are naturally confined to specific media. . types of graphic type : representational drawingthe lines used in this type are mainly in edge and text. since they are mostly drawn in scribbles and used as the initial stage, the viewpoint is random. the component type is secondary as it always contains meaning.type : writingwriting requires coordination between text and spacing. therefore, the lines used in writing is purely an object. viewpoint is speci and belongs to secondary component group.type : hypotheticalhypothetical diagrams are the edge whic contains idea, which is similar to bubble diagrams and mind ow. they are idea containers (secondary component) and random-speci mixed. type : calligraphycalligraphy is more than the meanings. they are part of the visual composition as well as an object itself. the viewpoint is random and embrace both primary and secondary components.type : anatomic drawingannotation requires text and lines to point out the parts components (edge + text). viewpoint is speci to the annotated object and such explanation is the secondary components.type : taxonomic drawingsuch classi cation is about naming and grouping, therefore, name (text) and tree diagram (edge) are required. viewpoint is specific to the classification system and information contained make it secondary group.type : cartographythe viewpoint of cartography is casual and random whereas they are mostly composed by character (object) and dialogue (text). . . .blue jeans representational writing hypothetical calligraphy anatomic drawing taxonomic drawing cartography diagrams perception research technical drawing types of line viewpoint components edge + text random secondary object objectedge secondary total secondary secondary primary secondary total edge + objectedge + text edge + text object + text edge + object crack + object + textspeci cspeci random both speci cspeci randomsecondary both both secondary . graphics and perception distal stimulus and proximal stimulus to make it more simpler, distal stimulus represents the object we see, like the students next to you, is an object. proximal stimulus represents the object you recognized, like you recognized the person next to you was your friend but not the enemy. for the same token, you are seeing the digram ds but you are looking at diagram ps. (ps is present when recognition process happens and may change in the next encounter, thus perception can change even though the object is the same). . tactics: juxtaposition, superimposition and tessellation . juxtaposition: the ultimate contribution of juxtaposition is to contrast with one another, simply to evoke meaning and spectators' speculation. there are two kinds of juxtaposition, one is intentional while another kind is purely accidental. intentional type can be created in media like painting, photography or even computer technique. while accidental type is mobile and occasional where juxtaposition only occurs at certain viewpoints and time. sometime, people involved could also evoke the same effect. .superimposition: the additon of layers on the same plane that creates the resultant image is called superimposition. by that mean, superimposed image contains the properties of all the add-ups, generating hybrid offspring from the sources. not surprisingly, superimposed image weaken the two original parties but strengthens the third. . tessellation: the seamless compact composition is the main concept of tessellation. for data analyzt or engineer, tessellation is always used to investigate the structure of component from different scales. still, the amateur would compare tessellation with the concept of "collage" as both are surface-occupying by smaller subunits. the major difference lies in that collage relies heavily on random patterns while tessellation needs the precise one.ds ps tb nqmfuftujoht bnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuft ujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnq mfuftujohtbnqmfuftu johtbnqmfuftujo htbnqmfuftuj ohtbnqmf uftujo htb ds ps distal stimulus is the object you see while proximal is the processed data you look. tbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqm tbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujoh tbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfu ftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnq mfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtb nqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohjuxtaposition superimposition -jointy-jointtessellationgraphic and perception type : diagrams this type is similar to hypothetical type but added with object lines (icon, symbol,etc).type : perception researchthis type of graphic is part of the mental process, which contains the change and instability. therefore, the type of lines contain crack along with object and some texts. due to the instability, they are both random ans speci . yet the component group is certainly about secondary.type : technical drawinglike building or any other kinds of components illustration, they requires multi-viewpoints to illustrate the idea clearly and exactly. (therefore they are never casual and random). they can evoke meanings or zero meaning. edges and objects are the major composition of such drawings. rectangles polygon rectangles rec. + tri. rec. + tri. rec. + ??? ellipse + ??? rec. + ???. what did you (easily) see?/ gestalt extension to restate the basic principle of gestalt, the ultimate aim is to simplify the percepts and make things understandable. the gures on the left side are made up of sub-components. some are obvious but some you cannot know their exact components. . law of simplicity and proximity: when the diagrams were placed too close, due to the overall principle of simplicity, they would be considered as separated or attached objects. grouping would either be helpful or confusing.. law of continuity: the covered part would be predicted by the law of continuity, that means wherever the covered part are in too greate extent, continuity law becomes useless and cannot distinguish the missing part in our neverous system. . concavities and convexities: the missing parts resulted from concavities and convexities can be related to the previous mentioned principles. yet, they both have different effects on the viewer. concavities is much dif cult to recognize and notice than the convexities because convexities are like positive image while concavities is the negative one. . some hints towards better drawing to make the sketch, diagram and detail drawings more comprehensisble, several rules are suggested to enhance the delivery.) neutral style: try make the drawings understandable to most of the possible viewers with different culture and personal background.) focus on centered objects: it can centralize the major content and deliver to the viewer. the diffused sides are obviously the least noticed spot (at least not the focus at rst sight). ) drawing in black: blackened object is more eye-catching than the boundary-type object. utilize this tactic to contrast with the drawing background.) object with information: make sure the represented objects are in most comprehensible view (the most common view by public).) frontal view: it can increase the information because most objects we encounter are in frontal view!) avoid overlapping: it can avoid the mixing for different meanings. (more applicable in presenting mass objects).) understand by public: to target the audience. ellipses + polygon2 ellipses + rectanglegraphic and perception neutral style universal focus on center less confusing draw in black contrasted to white background object with info. always draw to represent object frontal view never view from other angle avoid overlapping avoid meanings from mixing understand by public ensure most people will understand artwork & photographs -% headlines56% advertising52% brief and cutlines % text25%. contemporary visual literacy what attracts our vision?according to the statistics, the media we most look at newspaper is from photographs, healines, advertising, brief and texts. of course, it is not surprising at all because we want to capture the all first, and the wholeness is always easy to be contained in photo. graphic-oriented setting in order to catch viewers' attention, graphic presented should be clear and big enough (too much image would weaken the power of any single photo). the most common forms are like duality, " caption + photo" or graph, etc. texts as the graphic texts are no doubt the content of the idea, yet too much (even it is essential!) would lead to boring. therefore, to keep it interesting, we need the dynamic form, or simply the tactic of texts as the graphic. typeface typeface is the style of the delievery. it represents the tone and statement for your expression. because typeface contains graphic design, it suits for different context and different occasions.for example, the more curvy typeface is associated with elegance while no speci styles are always used for the formal document. (another reason is that it leaves the expression to the words' content.) san serif and serif they are the main composition of any single letter in their respective style. the use of bold, curve, high-low relation forms style system. (.. gothic) media the media where the texts and pictures fit are the determing factor to influence the overall layout. like article or magazine. since the length of passage is short, it always adopts the methodology of "column", one one hand fit as much as passages on one page while packing mass (similar) information on the same page. tips for better contemporary literacy principles:tbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujo htbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftujohtbnqmfuftaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa key picturehealine sub-headlines intermediate intermediatetext text text textpicture picturecontemporary visual literacy - clarify purpose of the design - know your audience - use grid for consistency - select appropriate visual and verbal content - use appropraite color for meaning - use type wisely select proper type only vary types in same family when in doubt select column with readability - consider the entire framemix typefaces sparingly and cautiouslycolormeaningdirecting gridsaudiencepurpose font fontfont type family family family readability readability wholeness . old media, new media with more advanced technology involved, the same object or intent can be re-interpreted with the new formats, they are as follows: . sculpture the new format of sculpture might not be as curvy and aesthetic than the past, but they would be more directive and insightful, at least to shock people, provoking rethink of contemporary life. the multimedia format allow us to see many changing images in new visual experience. (.. large lcd screen for image projection). . event with the new technology to record objects and events, we can even show and present them with the merge of time, attempting the impossibilities. for example, using one photo to present multi-images (multi-instance) instead of many. . invisibility abstract data like distance and dimension can be shown with graphic as estimates as the rst step. it saves lot of time to manage the more complicated processs in next step. (the calculation of exact dimension). . first person expereince (visual) new software provides rst- person viewpoint to experience places or even museum at home. it simulates the sensory experience like playing video game. the difference is the data were extracted form the real photo and streetscape from worldwide instead of just virtual reality in the game. . storage with more advanced computer storage system, our les and records are more easily transferred, retained and altered. in physical world, it can also save the storage space in great extent. . communication new electronic communication may or may not be stronger tools than their counterparts. yet, they are more convenient to iniation or distribution on internet. based on simple encounter theory, when the message is exposed to such bulk of people, the possibilities to meet the right one would naturally increase.old media, new media ++ ++ + + facebook = -new media quickly become old media. -concious sense of aesthetics to be transited to new media. - new media are the environment. - new media are at once personal and impersonal. - new media are connected and disconnected. - the real new (and old) medium is the self. - new media are re exive. - our ability to perceive the world visually is increasing exponentially. . visual space and time in the 21st century, we see most advancing technologies, when we looking back, we noticed the media we use today were foretold by lms. like in the minority report (), the crime prediction although hardly realized with today' technology, the format and media seen in the film were becoming reality and popularized for some moments. . visual affordance the theory was originated from james gibson (1950s). the major contribution of this thesis was to tell people that we see things with their hidden meaning. of course, the intention is not about symbolism but what the object means to the viewer. for example, wall or fence may mean barrier or stoppage but corridor and open space may mean "usage and functions", and is more public and welcoming to the viewers. .depth: occulsion, (perspective) directing lines and shadow such phenomena (not necessarily the tactics) are common to us when we walk down the street. occulsion means the front-back relations with the surroundings, creating the depth of space. it can be portrayed on 2d image, like photo. but the effect is different to the real 3d space, so we call them as .5d image. perspective image is mainly directed by the lines, or rows of objects with the same orientation. in addition to the above-mentioned phenomena, shadow is also determinant to distinguish the depth od 3d space. . visual motion visual motion can be portrayed by the movement of objects (re ected in the blur of image). as in painting or drawing, motion lines are involved to represent the motion, like those in comic we see sometimes. . visual navigation (scaling) the change of angle, viewpoint and position in continuous way, like the walkthrough function in game or 3d-modelling in design eld. the smooth change of scale allows viewer to experience the relations between different scale as well as understanding the composition of object (.. structural component) structurally and spatially. the nine rules about depth the nine guidelines are as follows: ) using occulsion to portray depth; ) size gradient for perspective projection; ) texture gardient to portray shadow and pattern; ) linear perspective; ) directly casting shadow on the covered objects; ) include height to portary the whole volume; ) depth of focus; ) reference to nearby object for comprehension ) degree of contrast. visual space and time (.5d) brightness at the center blur on left and right linear perspective lines occulsion pattern gradientdirection linesa wall door - occulsion: information for ranking order - perspective: size gradient - perspective: texture gradient - linear perspective - casting shadow - height on picture plane - depth of focus - reference to nearby objects - degree of contrast
sm2715 creative coding manfred lau intro assistant prof.: dr.lau chung man, manfred -mail: manfred.lau@cityu.edu.hk room: cmc m7103, /, run run shaw creative media centre office phone: - computer graphics, human -computer interaction, 3d modeling and fabrication topics each unit is approximately week (sometimes more, sometimes less) unit 1basics: processing, data type unit structure: function, class unit 3image processing unit image processing unit vide processing unit ambient: random, noise, maths unit ambient: random, noise, math unit audio processing unit time -based media unit game and physical simulation unit particle systems each class -about hours lecture part with about or multiple -choice questions , and then about hour for you to do larger /creative question at the end and make weekn submission -since class is online, we have multiple -choice questions during class that are directly related to the content in each class weekn submission -do by yourself -lecture part has about or multiple -choice questions, worth marks -plus one larger/creative question usually to create an image with code (because thats one purpose of processing language and also this course in general), submit image only, and brief description of how you made it, worth marks -marking will approximately be: very good good okay bad, did not do -submit one docx/pdf file -since the multiple -choice questions are shown during class only, have to attend class then -to make it easier for your schedule, can have one (or two?) week not count, so total is weeks marks = marks -do larger/creative question during approximately last hour of class, deadline to submit file is at end of class, but little late is fine coding assessment or test -do by yourself -choose few from set of my high -level questions -maybe do in week class ? we will decide later -worth marks policies sm2715 other sessions : -note that there are other sessions of this course last semester and also this semester. as these are taught by different instructors, the policies, deadlines, grading schemes, etc. may be different. -in previous year, someone submitted an assignment from another year and received grade of for that assessment. plagiarism: -schools default penalty '' grade for the course :( unit basics of processing download and install processing examples (built in) add examples examples on processing.org getting help getting help -highlight, and ight click to go to offlin reference page -or highlight, go to help, find in reference processing development environment (pde) your first processing program saving sketch folder name = file name 2d primitive shapes and their coordinates structure and flow of program -void setup() : called first and once, to define initial environment properties -void draw() : continuously executes the lines inside until the program is stopped or noloop () is called -noloop (): stops processing from continuously executing the code within draw() (to resume, use loop()) unstructured program -does not contain setup() nor draw() functions -static sketch only -no interaction, dynamics and animation structured program -contains one setup() and one draw() function -dynamic sketches -allow animation and interactivity -activity: try to move the line background(); from draw() to setup() to see what would happen size(, ); always the first line in setup example where to put background()? compare these two programs: exercise -write structured program that -gives display window of dimension 600x600 -has changing background color from white to black, then white to black again continuously -draws circle of radius (width,height =) at the middle of the canvas suggested code to exercise -background color is updated in every frame, thus background( bg) has to be put inside draw() but not setup() -bg= bg-; background color is decreased by each time , , , ... , , , -after drawing background() (black), bg= -, then bg= -; thus bgis reset to (white) again -the dimension of the canvas is 600x600, thus centre of the canvas is (,) -although the circle is static (not changing), but it has to be drawn again each time after the background color is updated grayscale color --bit: - (= ) - as black and as white -..background(); //white background stroke(); //black stroke color fill(); //light gray fill color rgb color --bit full color --bit for each color of red, green and blue ( ) -.. background(,,); //red fill(,,); -color selector tool transparency (alpha value) -alpha values also range from to -: completely transparent (.. % opaque) -:completely opaque ( ..% opaque) -..fill(,); stroke(,,,); -transparency not applicable to background! variable declaration & initiali zation data_type variable_name = init_value ; int = ; -variable naming rules : -must be one word (no spaces) -must start with letter -can include numbers; but not start with number -can include underscore -must be unique -cannot be the same as system variables, .., -mousex , mousey , width, height, framecount , key, keycode , keypressed , mousepressed , mousebutton data types name value range example boolean true or false ( bit) boolean = true, = false; char to ( bits) char mychar1=, mychar2=$; byte - to ( bits) byte = -; int - to ( bits) int number = , temp = -; float -.40282347e+ to .40282347e+ ( bits) float = -.; color16,, colors ( bits)color c1 = color(,,), c2 = #ffcc00; ascii table data types example data type mouse events -mousex , mousey -pmousex , pmousey -mousemoved () -mousedragged () -mousepressed (), mousepressed returns true or false -mouseclicked () -mousereleased () -mousebutton returns left, right, or center -cursor(), nocursor ()examples unit keyboard events -key -keycode -to detect special keys such as up, down, left, alt, control shift -keypressed ()& keypressed -keyreleased () -keytyped ()examples unit example
fractals: pattern in patternslecture introduction recursion,self-similarity feedback,reflection, self-replication,paradoxes,infinite regress,circular reasoning,induction,dimension pattern of patterns? "turtles all the way down -an effort to defend the mythological idea of aworld turtlethat supports the flat earth on its back. it suggests that this turtle rests on the back of an even larger turtle, which itself is part of column of increasingly large world turtles that continues indefinitely.gilbert ryleargues in thephilosophy of mindthatmind-body dualismis implausible because it produces an infinite regress of "inner observers" when trying to explain how mental states are able to influence physical states.infinite regress cartesian theatre and homunculus self-referenceoccurs innaturalorformal languageswhen asentence, idea orformularefers to itself. inphilosophy, it also refers to the ability of subject to speak of or refer to itself, that is, to have the kind of thought expressed by the first person nominative singular pronoun""in english.self-reference is the answer to this question 'no?can an omnipotent being create stone that he cannot lift? epimenides paradox: 'all cretans are liars says greek cretan.gnuis arecursive acronymfor "gnu' not unix! circular reasoningrecursive causalitywhat came first, the chicken or the egg? plutarchposed the question as philosophical matter in his essay "the symposiacs", written in the 1st century ce. famous recurrence relationthe fibonacci numbers are the terms of sequence of integers in which each term is the sum of the two previous terms (the number of rabbits each month). ... and here it is again:...if fibonacci number is divided by its immediate predecessor in the sequence, the quotient approximates mm.. turtles all the way down? proof by induction.. mathematical induction proves that we can climb as high as we like on ladder, by proving that we can climb onto the bottom rung (thebasis) and that from each rung we can climb up to the next one (thestep).concrete mathematics, page margins.there is an island upon which tribe resides. the tribe consists of people, with various eye colours. yet, their religion forbids them to know their own eye color, or even to discuss the topic; thus, each resident can (and does) see the eye colorsof all other residents, but has no way of discovering his or her own (there are no reflective surfaces). if tribesperson does discover his or her own eye color, then their religion compels them to commit ritual suicide at noon the following day in the village square for all to witness. all the tribespeople are highly logical and devout, and they all knowthat each other is also highly logical and devout (and they all know that they all know that each other is highly logical and devout, and so forth).of the islanders, it turns out that of them have blue eyes and of them have brown eyes, although the islanders are not initially aware of these statistics (each of them can of course only see of the tribespeople).one day, blue-eyed foreigner visits to the island and wins the complete trust of the tribe.one evening, he addresses the entire tribe to thank them for their hospitality. however, not knowing the customs, the foreigner makes the mistake of mentioning eye colorin his address, remarking how unusual it is to see another blue-eyed person like myself in this region of the world.what effect, if anything, does thisfaux pashave on the tribe? what produce fractals?applying the same rule on the result (recursion) yellow chamomilehead showing the arrangement in (blue) and (aqua) spirals. such arrangements involving consecutive fibonacci numbers appear in wide variety of plants. zenos paradoxquestion: what is the actual length of the figure?how can it be finite? ... remake of powers of ten() -written and directed bycharles and ray eames, depicts the scalesof theuniverseaccording to anorder of magnitude. eye, by astrophysicist danailobreschkow fractalsi) what are these?ii) where we find them?) in natureb) in art (including literature, music...)) in scienced) in code(term coined in by benoit mandelbrot) fractal? shape for which any suitably chosen part is similar in shape to given larger or smaller part when magnified or reducedto the same size (self-similarity)so, its all about repeating patters or structures, but this time the pattern is found at ever level of zoom. from the smallest to the largest. some scientist posit that the universe itself is fractal: worlds within worlds...fractals are typically generated using recursion.... at the edge of chaos?fractal theory is not the same as chaos theory, which is derived from mathematics. but chaos does have place in fractal theory in that systems exist on spectrum ranging from equilibrium to chaos. system in equilibrium does not have the internal dynamics to enable it to respond to its environment and will slowly (or quickly) die. system in chaos ceases to function as system. the most productive state to be in is at the edge of chaos where there is maximum variety and creativity, leading to new possibilities. hears who! filmbased on the1954 book of the same namebydr. seuss(blue sky studios/20th century fox() an experiment: start with an equilateral triangle and replace the middle /3rdof each line segment by another equilateral trianglecontinue this process, and the shape begin to show more like snowflake. suppose you continue this process ad infinitum: something very weird happens at every level of zoom, the shape looks the same... this is actually called akoch snowflake.it is an example of fractal fractal dimension... ... two-dimensional line?? (space filling curve) ... line of dimension even larger???=.5819d=2sierpinski triangle... figure of dimension = . ??gosper curve jerusalem cube clouds, snowflakes, crystals, mountains, lightning, river networks, broccoli, blood vessels and pulmonary vessels, coastlines, tree branches, roots, galaxies, etc. ) in nature fractals (space filling) structures maximize the exchange of gases in lungs, or irrigation of fields or blood in the body... crystal formation animals plants life, viruses and self-replicating machines... fractal art (is thing)remember? the hidden beauty of simple formula (changing parameters)-just the result of simulation-embellishedit is like starting by the motif and create the artwork out of it. it works, even in literature.we will try that in moment fractal art: beauty and mathematics, exhibit at the international congress of mathematicians in madrid, spain. the works were selected through the international contest of fractal art icm2006, chaired by benoit mandelbrot, "the father of fractal geometry. scientists turned artists blooms are - printed sculptures designed to animate when spun under strobe light. unlike 3d zoetrope, which animates sequence of small changes to objects, bloom animates as single self-contained sculpture. the blooms animation effect is achieved by progressive rotations of the golden ratio, phi (), the same ratio that nature employs to generate the spiral patterns we see in pinecones and sunflowers. the rotational speed and strobe rate of the bloom are synchronized so that one flash occurs every time the bloom turns . (the angular version of phi).* each blooms particular form and behavioris determined by unique parametric seed call phi-nome-john edmark nice use of self-similarity... yoichirokawaguchi kandariyamahadev temple(pradesh, india, ad) nasir al-mulk mosquealso known as the "pink mosque",nasir al-mulkwas built in shiraz, iran, in the late 1800s. one glimpse at its interior explains its nickname: lustroustiles in all shades of red and pink adorn the inner dome as well as the walls, giving warm glow to the entire building. muqarnas(arabic: ;persian: ,(known iniranian architectureasahoopy(persian: (and in iberian architecture asmocrabe, is form of ornamentedvaultinginislamic architecture. it is the archetypal form of islamic architecture, integral to the vernacular of islamic buildings katsushika hokusai -tsunami (-) sachiko kodama () iris van herpen -infinity dress michael hansmeyer -arabesque wall () tobias klein -vessels of vanitas ii () fractals in music the structure of bach' music resembles that of classic type of fractal known as cantor set. start with line segment. remove the middle third. then remove the middle third from the remaining pieces, and so on. the result is "cantor comb: acanonis contrapuntal compositional technique that employs amelodywith one or moreimitationsof the melody played after givenduration(.., quarter rest, one measure, etc.).this self-similaritymakes canon "fractal like" recurrent motifs (literature), stories within stories...its common literature device... also think about the temporal paradoxes in all the movies about time machines: bifurcating, intricate patters and always paradoxes... mathematics, physics and biology (obviously)cognitive sciences, philosophy of the mindd) in sciencefractals help us study and understand important scientific concepts, such as the way bacteria grow, patterns in freezing water (snowflakes) and brain waves, for example. their formulas have made possible many scientific breakthroughs. wireless cell phone antennas use fractal pattern to pick up the signals better, and pick up wider range of signals, rather than simple antenna. anything with rhythm or pattern has chance of being very fractal-like. ... its like mathematical formula to model complexity fractalantennas... acomputerchipcoolingcircuitetchedinafractalbranchingpattern.developedbyresearchersatoregonstateuniversity,thedevicechannelsliquidnitrogenacrossthesurfacetokeepthechipcool. metamaterials (auxetic materials with very interesting mechanical properties... reflective nature of the , cybernetics, autopoiesispsychedelics: fractals are hypnotic; they have something very appealing anddisturbing too. like falling into infinity they resemble visual hallucinations in the mind' eye, fractal is way of seeing infinity.-james gleick, fromchaos()fractals are pure patter and only pattern: supernormal stimulus? in religion/metaphysics/philosophymake us reflect on our place in the universe? others: the mandala nearly allour myths and stories are self similar, fractal variations of so-called monomyth, sharing the same fundamental structure: hero ventures forth from the world of common day into region of supernatural wonder: fabulous forces are there encountered and decisive victory is won: the hero comes back from this mysterious adventure with the power to bestow boons on his fellow man.joseph campbell the hero with thousand faces ) in code, computer graphicsgraphicssoundothersfractals have been generated on computers using the following methods:menger sponge,hypercomplex manifold,brownian tree,brownian motion,decomposition, -systems,lyapunov fractals,newton fractals,pickover stalksandstrange attractors...iterationrecursionrewrite systemscellular automaton fractals capture/generate complexity from simple rules!thats why they are pervasive in nature? (and lifeforms -genetic code)used in fractal compressionused in computer graphics (extreme case: demoscene) -kilobyte(!!!) demo squeezes universe of fractals into the size of word document film: annihilation () director: andrew garland actress in this scene: natalie portman music: excerpt from the track "the alien" by ben salisbury and geoff barrow, which features the track "the mark (interlude)" by moderatmandelbulb mandelbrot set the mandelbrot set is important inchaostheory: structure from chaos, again...iteration allthis complexity stems from this formula!! online: processing p5.js (javascript) recursionrecursion is the process procedure goes through when one of the steps of the procedure involves invoking the procedure itself. procedure that goes through recursion is said to be 'recursive' .only one disk can be moved at time..each move consists of taking the upper disk from one of the stacks and placing it on top of another stack or on an empty rod..no larger disk may be placed on top of smaller disk.tower of hanoi (puzzle) ? video feedback(used in video art)video artis an art form which relies on usingvideotechnology as visual and audio medium. video art emerged during the late 1960s as new consumer video technology such asvideo tape recordersbecame available outside corporate broadcasting nam june paik, tv rodin (le penseur),- thedrosteeffect, known inartas an example ofmise en abyme, is the effect of picturerecursivelyappearing within itself, in place where similar picture would realistically be expected to appear, creating loop which theoretically could go on forever, but realistically only goes on as far as the image' quality allows.[]the effect is named fora dutch brand ofcocoa, with an image designed by jan musset in . it has since been used in the packaging of variety of products. the effect was anticipated in medieval works of art such asgiotto'sstefaneschi triptychof .drosteeffect & mise enabyme matryoshka dolls(russian:) gonzales coques,picture gallery, salvador dali. print gallery (), lithograph . . escher. it depicts man in gallery viewing print of seaport, and among the buildings in the seaport is the very gallery in which he is standing, making use of thedroste effectwith visualrecursion.[]the lithograph has attracted discussion in both mathematical and artistic contexts recursive ar growing crystal2010 ouroboros ( not completed) lets play (you will continue and use your notebookto document) rewrite systems (recusionin fact) lindenmayerwas biologist who was interested in studying natural growth of plantshe created grammar for describing how things change over time. today we call this language an -system how does it work: notice pattern? look closely at thelengthof each of these strings: , , , , , , , . can you see why the strings produced by this system are calledfibostrings? quite apart from how algae grow, you probably remember learning that the fibonacci number sequence shows up often in the natural world, most famously in the way that leaves and scales are arranged on plants (phyllotaxis). robots are closely associated with the work ofseymour papertand the common use of thelogo programming languagein computer education of the 1980s. ... interpreting the sequence graphicallyfractals in logo: example: generating of the dragon curve example graphical interpretation of the stringf - - -fwith aturning angle of 90andstarting facing north:more examples: cellular automatoncellular automata (ca) were originally conceived by ulamand von neumann in the 1940s to provide formal framework for investigating the behaviour of complex, extended systems. cellular automaton consists of regular grid of cells, each of which can be in one of finite number of states, updated synchronously in discrete time steps according to local, identical interaction rule.the state of cell is determined by the previous states of surrounding neighbourhood of cells. example: conways game of life luna(by tetianaparshakova) final project .explain the work in relation with the concepts and ideas from the lectures (the work does not need to be about them you need to be able to create discourse based on conceptual framework).documentation of the process of creation of the work, including ideation, problems, logistics, materials, etc3.capture the work in the notebook as if it were something that you didntproduce yourself, say, sculpture in museum (can be sketches, drawings, studies of any sort that are not part of the process of creation).you have to write an artist statement? 123your final artwork can be anythingyou want (photography, video, an interactive piece, poem...)...but you will need to be able to present it ( min) and address the following: artist statement? fractal windows(-) boxedego() exercise:-systems [processing]cellular automata
ge1121 what is the japanese sense of beauty . color and belief dry landscape garden tea room the design of muji the design of muji wabi languor, an aesthetic and moral concept designating life of leisure, without mundane, daily concerns, and free of emotion. in the kamakura period, it became synonymous with solitude and tranquility in simplicity. it was widely applied by waka poets and, later, by aesthetes of the tea ceremony ( chanoyu ), who advocated isolation from the world and the use of simple, rustic things, seen to represent pure beauty. this concept then became typical of zen buddhist and shinto philosophies that were close to nature. sabi in the twelfth century, the concept appeared in literature and poetry, proposing that descriptions be more allusive and suggestive than factual. one of the first poets to use sabi was fujiwara no toshinari , but matsuo basho expressed it the best in his haiku, by emphasizing the beauty of natural things. sabi also includes feeling of solitude ( sabishi ) , desolation ( susabi ) , and serse resignation. sabi aesthetic concept that developed during the muromachi period, in which restraint and simplicity are more important than brilliant appearance. the interior nature of things is considered primarily, and less attention is paid to their exterior. in art, this concept was used mainly in the tea ceremony ( chanoyu ), and it is the basis for the visual simplicity of teahouses (chashitsu ) and of the pottery ( chasen ) and implements used in the tea ceremony. why the color of red strictly restricted? first system to rank officials into levels the liberation of the red after century made japanese sense of beauty degenerated. kunio yanagida now, lets look at some chinese examples. peony painting traditional chinese dress purple used for emperor chinese garden chinese garden chinese garden european garden european garden european garden the reason for us cannot find out the elements of wabi or sabi from the examples above are as follows . color . shape . unnatural intention (or metaphysical idea) how chinese treated the sabi or wab ideas? " " " " " ' ' " " " how disgusting those withered lotus leaves look, remarked baoyu , why not get people to pull them out? what time has there been for that? counteren baochai with smaile . weve been out here enjoying ourselves every day recently. daiyu put in, dont like lishangyin verses except for that single line leave the withered lotus to hear the patter of rain. but now you two don want to leave them. thats good line, agreed baoyu ,. all right, we won have them pulled out. (worldly desires) blooming flowers and full moon - perfect conjugal bliss, and complete happiness and longevity : reunion ( autumn festival) : be perfect in every way; be the acme of perfection. rikiu was watching his son shoan as he swept and watered the garden path. not clean enough, said rikiu, when shoan had finished his task, and bade him try again. after weary hour the son turned to rikiu: father, there is nothing more to be done. the steps have been washed for the third time, the stone lanterns and the trees are well sprinkled with water, moss and lichens are shining with fresh verdure; not twig, not leaf have left on the ground. you fool, chided the tea master, that is the way the garden path should be swept. saying this, rikiu stepped into the garden, shock tree and scattered over the garden gold and crimson leaves, scraps of the brocade of autumn! what rikiu demanded was not cleanliness alone, but the beautiful and the natural also. okakura tenshin the book of tea desireless wabi,sabi , reflect on color, food, etc. the origin of belief: buddhisim greedy perfection, reflect on color, food, immortality( ), etc. the origin of belief: taoism reflection on food culture reflection on food culture essays in idleness the sight of bare wintry landscape is almost as lovely as autumn. it is delightful to see fallen autumn leaves scattered among the plants by the waters edge, or vapour rising from the garden stream on morning white with frost. chapter one excellent way to understand the fundamental characteristic of nation would be to study its untranslatable words. in the case of japan, perhaps the most important of all such words is shibui. (another is iki) shibui is an adjective which implies the gentle repression of aesthetic emotion so that we are satisfied with colours that are not so bright, small rather than imposing things, latent more than dynamic energy, understatement, not hyperbole. it is perhaps one of the japanese applications of the teaching of taoism to their own daily life. and this putting of all principles into practice, or rather, never dividing principles and practice, never philosophising, never abstracting is the essence of the japanese way of living. ..blyth. japanese life and character in senryu tokyo.hokuseido.. p2 are we to look at cherry blossoms only in full bloom, the moon only when it is cloudless? to long for the moon while looking on the rain, to lower the blinds and be unaware of the passing of the spring -these are even more deeply moving. branches about to blossom or gardens strewn with faded flowers are worthier of our admiration. are poems written on such themes as going to view the cherry blossoms only to find they had scattered or on being prevented form visiting the blossoms inferior to those on seeing the blossoms? people commonly regret that the cherry blossoms scatter or that the moon sinks in the sky, and this is natural; but only an exceptionally insensitive man would say: this branch and that branch have lost their blossoms. there is nothing worth seeing now. kenko yoshida tsurezuregusa , chapter137 if man were never to fade away like the dews of adashino , never to vanish like the smoke over toribeyama , but lingered on forever in the world, how things would lose their power to move us! the most precious thing in life is its uncertainty. consider living creatures -none lives so long as man. the may fly waits not for the evening, the summer cicada knows neither spring nor autumn. what wonderfully unhurried feeling it is to live even single year in perfect serenity! if that is not enough for you, you might live thousands years and still feel it was but single nights dream. we can not live forever in this world; why should we wait for ugliness to overtake us? kenko yoshida tsurezuregusa , chapter7 the changing of season is deeply moving in its every manifestation. kenko yoshida tsurezuregusa , chapter looking at the moon is always diverting, no matter what the circumstances. certain man once said, surely nothing is so delightful as the moon, but another man rejoined, the dew moves me even more. how amusing that they should have argued the point! what could fail to be affecting in its proper season. ichigoichie the exact same meeting will never repeat itself, an awareness which forces the hot to do his utmost and the guest to fully appreciate the host efforts. the foremost principle of tea is, first of all, that meeting is unique event called ichigo -ichie. however often one may meet with one guest, one must do so as if today meeting will never repeat itself. it is once -in--lifetime event. the host must pay due attention to every detail and do his utmost, as if it were the last time they would meet. the heart must not neglect one single thing and relate to the guests with transparent purity. this is what ichigo -ichie means. chado koten zenshu, vol..no. (june,) . at the end, the host should offer the guests his farewell as if he regretted to see them leave and when the guests step out onto the roji, he should not shout, but quietly see them off until they are out of sight .then with peace in his heart, the host re -enters the tea -room in manner as to avoid turning his back to them and sits alone in front of the hearth hand, pondering where his guests may now be, he realizes that meeting like the one today will never come back . chado koten zenshu, . : reflected in literature mononoaware feel the pathos of things; be sensitive to pathos; be moved with sense of pathos. hiku () yoin (aftertaste or significance) and kuhaku (space) :reflected in daily life greeting table manner interior decoration references .okakura tenshin ,the book of tea , , tokyo: kodansha press .herbert plutschou, rediscovering rikiu , ,london: global orental .kenko, essays in idleness,, new york: columbia university press discussion there is said to be unique sense of beauty in japan. compare japanese aesthetics with the concept of beauty in your country. is this notion of uniqueness valid? weekly readings (weeks -) davies, . & ikeno , . the japanese mind: understanding contemporary culture. tokyo: tuttle. [library -book] see the chapters of () japanese sense of beauty, () the do spirit of japan, () the japanese sense of seasons koshiro, . (). the wabi aesthetic through the ages. in .. varley & . kumakura (eds.). tea in japan: essays on the history of chanoyu , pp. -. honolulu : university of hawaii press. [library -book] see chapter
information design and visualization contents of today classbasic conceptsdaily exampleclassical examplecase study some basic conceptsvisualization?data and information?data types visualization?visualize: to form mental image of.to imagine or remember as if actually seeingto understandfrom data data and informationwe are concerned with situations in which body of data is available and human being wishes to gain insightinto that data.data is deadbut information is alive.we want to informed by the data.understanding of data and not just see them. data typesnumerical data: ,,,,,,,etc.ordinal data: monday, tuesday, wed. ,etc.categorical data: cats, dogs, bryan, phil. to understandto understand: is to know what causeprovokes what effect, by what means, at what rate. information design strategiesthe proper arrangement in spaceand timeof images, words, and numbersfor presenting information about motion, process, mechanism, causeand effect. visual techniquesdirect labels: philshek encodingcolor temperatureself-representing scales china josef koudelka, the urge to see, prague, august , urge to seeit testifies to the empty street during the soviet invasion of czechoslovakia that ended the prague spring of democratic reform.what kind of information it provided? classical examples:taxationnightingales rosenapoleonharry becks mapan outbreak of cholera taxationsir edward playfair, its author, wished to emphasize that the great british empire was far too heavily taxed. the left-hand side are proportional to gross national product and the right-hand side are the tax income. nightingales roseflorence nightingale was the heroic nurse who went out to the front-line british hospital in the crimea in the mid-1850s.she persuaded sanitary commission to undertake improvements and wrote report to british government describing the unsatisfactory conditions and how they were improved. charles joseph minard1781 (age89)the pioneer of thematic cartography charles joseph minardcharles joseph minard was pioneer in thematic cartography and in statistical graphics.minards first career was as practical engineer. later he became thematic cartography and visual engineering inspector for france napoleons army march to moscow, russia napoleons march on moscow -1813the grand army was , in size when it started invaded russia in .the final size was ,. the data six variables are plotted:timemajor events in the invasion (name of cities)the size of the armyits location on -dimensional spacedirection of the army movementtemperature on various date during the retreat from moscow. minards visualization harry becks mapfamous london underground map by mr. harry beck in .he realized that it doesnt matter where you are when you are underground.the correct sequence with their interchanges are clearly shown. an outbreak of cholera in london,1854dr. john snow , the author of the cholera spreading map able to discover the cause of wide spread and bring it to an end. placing the data in an appropriate context for assessing cause and effect.making quantitative comparisons daily examplevisual answer to the following question.timespace mechanism what is it?how it is working?when it will come?who go first? bauhaus abolished the use of capital letters1925, bauhaus school of design officially abolished the use of capitals.for three reasons:save timewhy have alphabets if one can achieves the same purpose?why write in capitals when we cannot speak in capitals?herbert bayer reading of names is easier when it start with capital letterlegibility research conducted in from the road research laboratory in england found that place names in small letters withinitial capitals were easier to read. reading of names is easier when it start with capital letter reading of names is easier when it start with capital letter new schipol airport (dutch)in the signage system for amsterdams new schipol airport in despite the fact that readability research conducted in 60s had shown what typographer had known, that the reading of names is easier when it start with capital letter.they believe pictograms served only to produce communication noise.they use the perfectly unambiguous text. pictograms sometime are ambiguous -no pictograms -use of small letter capitals reinstated in plane crash in amsterdam cg from dutch civil aviation authority infographic from the nieuws van de dag visualization of some abstract concept like:sound lightperiodic cyclemusic sequenceetc. taste of some good and bad design
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session cooperating and resolving conflicts in group work concepts to learn emotion how emotions affect thinking and behaviors negotiation emotion what emotions are shown below? anger surprise 0happiness sadnessfear disgust emotion what is emotion? there is no consensus. but it is sure emotion involves multiple components: physiological changes expressive reactions and behaviors cognitive changes conscious feelings emotion what is emotion? appraisal eventreactions the essence of emotion is that it is an evaluative reaction emotion what is emotion? appraisal eventreactionsappraisal evaluation of the meaning of event is often considered the cause of emotion emotion what is emotion? appraisal eventreactions emotive reaction involves the whole range of mental functions meaning that the effects of emotion is pervasive if: lm is equal to; then +++++++ ; +++++++=% ++++++++ ; ++++++++=% +++ ; +++ = % +++ ; +++ = % none of them makes %. then what makes % ??? is it money? ++++ = ++++=% leadership? +++++++++ = +++++++++=% every problem has solution, only if we perhaps change our "attitude ". +++++++ = +++++++ = % it is therefore our attitude towards life and work that makes our life % successful . focus on the positive two men look out through the same bars: one sees the mud, and one the stars . , , --(british author: frederick langridge ( -) it depends what we focus , on the negative/unpleasant/dark or on the positive/the pleasant/bright side of our life be benefit finder whenever you get pain in your life, just think about the full form of pains ositive ttitude egative ituation which glass below do you see yourself? one of tal ben -shahars happiness tips keep in mind that happiness is mostly dependent on our state of mind , not on our status or the state of our bank account. barring extreme circumstances, our level of well being is determined by what we choose to focus on (the full or the empty part of the glass) and by our interpretation of external events . for example, do we view failure as catastrophic, or do we see it as learning opportunity? (goldberg, ) psychotherapy for depression: cognitive behavioral therapy 3ms agnifying , inimizing & aking up (fabricating) (tal ben -shahar ) ver personalizing , ver blaming (tal ben -shahar ) cognitive behavioral therapy: 3ms magnifying : exaggerating something that happens. over generalization : catastrophizing failure seeing it as the end of the world ; all - or - nothing : either straight or complete failure minimizing : tunnel vision : dismiss/negate the positives, does not see the greater picture but focus on small spot ( zoom in zoom out to see the larger/whole picture to see the positive as well) making up : create something from nothing personalize it or blame oneself . (its my fault. im not behaving appropriately instead of rationally saying this guy is abusive. im out of here.). it can also be the other way around ..., just did poorly on an exam, and blame my boyfriend/girlfriend for it . (tal ben -shahar , harvard positive psychology lecture : all-or-nothing approach the perfectionist universe is ostensibly simple things are right or wrong, good or bad, the best or the worst, success or failure . there are no gray areas , no nuances or complexities. (ben - shahar, :) for perfectionists, only the extremes of the continuum exist they are unable to recognize that there is middle ground . (asher pacht, in ben -shahar, :) all-or-nothing approach to life, rejecting any notion of winning or losing, success or failure, right or wrong these options signify polar extremes on continuum. (ben -shahar, : -) all-or-nothing approach these categories [polar extremes] do exist you succeeded to meet your objectives or you failed. there are also countless points between the extremes that may in themselves be necessary and valuable . there are many other options, many of them healthy and appropriate . (ben -shahar, :) an optimalist can find value and satisfaction in other words, happiness in less-than -perfect performance , something that perfectionist is unable to do. (ben -shahar, :) cognitive behavioral therapy 3ms tunnel vision : dismiss/negate the positives, does not see the greater picture but focus on small spot zoom in zoom out to see the larger/whole picture to see the positive as well shift 3ms 3ps permission to be human focusing on the positive perspective shifting (tal ben -shahar , harvard positive psychology lecture : shift 3ms 3ps if experience difficult experience, go through hard time. three steps: give myself permission that is, to accept your emotion, to accept that the problem is difficult, and to accept that this is the reality. something just happened, there is nothing can do about but what has just happened. focusing on the positive although cannot change the situation, can change how to interpret of what has happened that is, if interpret the situation as positive, this can be positive, and that would be benefit finder . if am going through very difficult time, perhaps this is tool for growth. there will be an opportunity in failure. perspective shifting we can look at situation in its broader context, or from another perspective. the permission to be human: to deal with an emotion in healthy manner, you need acknowledge / accept what happened as well as the emotion that you are feeling as result . (ben -shahar, : -) you can write about or talk about how you feel, or, if you prefer, give yourself the time and space to experience the experience . (ben -shahar, :) (cognitively) reconstruct the situation: this is where we change our interpretation of an event from negative/unhelpful interpretation to positive/helpful one . we can become benefit finders rather than faultfinders and recognize that while things do not necessarily happen for the best, some people are able to make the best of the things that happen .(ben -shahar, : -) (cognitively) reconstruct the situation: optimalists tend to be benefit finders the sort of people who find the silver lining in the dark cloud , who look on the bright side of life with knack for turning setbacks into opportunities , the optimalist goes through life with an overall sense of optimism. (ben -shahar, :) (cognitively) reconstruct the situation: ask yourself: - what positive outcomes this situation can have . this does not mean that you are happy about it, but simply that there are benefits that can be derived. can you learn something new? can you gain new insight into yourself or others? can you become more empathetic or more appreciative of what you have in life? (ben -shahar , :) note: questions create reality! questions create possibility! (ben -shahar , ) (cognitively) reconstruct the situation: note: ben-shahar reminds us: while the optimalist tends to focus on the potential benefits inherent in any situation, he also acknowledges that notevery negative event has positive aspect, that there are many wrongs in the world, and that at times negative reaction to events is very appropriate. (ben -shahar, :) give us the permission to be human to accept the harsh reality and accept our emotional and behavioral reactions/responses. to gain wider perspective on the situation: often, when we look at situation in its broader context, our worries and disappointments diminish . ask yourself: - can you see the experience in the larger scheme of things? how will you see the situation year from now ? negotiation it is process by which persons who seek to reach an agreement while maximizing ones gain. why negotiate? to maximize personal gain; to maintain the relationship negotiation people in negotiate often struggle between personal goals and relationship goals. when personal goals > relationship goals: -negotiate to win; -make an agreement more favorable to oneself than to the other.when relationship goals > personal goals: -compromise to ease tension; -make an agreement more favorable to the other person. negotiation people in negotiation often struggle between personal goals and relationship goals. when both goals & relationship are important : - negotiate to problem solving; - create an agreement for mutual benefits constructive negotiation constructive negotiation will: result to an agreement that maximizes mutual benefit strengthen relationship by establishing understanding, trust, and empathy clarify boundaries between people contribute to rational climate in dealing with conflicts what to do . tell what you want in descriptive, non -evaluative way; . tell how you feel in descriptive, non -evaluative way; . explain the reasons for what you want and for your feelings; . ask about and listen to what the other person wants, feel, and their reasons for those wants and feelings. . reverse perspectives by summarizing what the other person wants and feels and the reasons underlying those wants and feelings; . take into consider both partners needs, suggest options to maximize joint benefits; . evaluate jointly with the other partner each of the options.constructive negotiation conclusions emotions affect thinking and behavior because it can shift goals. it is alright to have emotions, but their influence needs to be managed. (give yourself permission to be human accept your negative emotions) our emotion/behavior is resulted from our cognitive appraisal about the event. so change our thinking to change our behavior/emotion/feeling. (cognitive therapy) there are inter -relationships among our thoughts, emotions/feelings and behaviors (cbt). change can start from thought, emotion or behavior. conflicts could be hard to resolve when it happens in committed relationships as result of incompatible goals. in committed relationships, conflicts should be resolved through problem - solving negotiations to achieve mutual benefits (win -win solution). healthy/unhealthy conflicts the conflict is natural, inevitable, important part of our relationships . healthy inter -group or intra -group conflict is cognitive rather than affective conflict (we may lose our rational mind when were overwhelmed by our emotions/feelings) . cognitive conflict is about focusing on the persons behavior or thoughts and ideas , and challenging those . unhealthy conflict is focusing on the person, on the emotions, on who they are . when attack someone for who they are, the person, the emotion, that is not healthy, not for group, not for couple .. of focusing on the person, you are so inconsiderate! .. focusing on behavior, do you mind putting up the toilet seat when you have done? (tal ben -shahar ) techniques for resolving conflicts win-lose approach there is win side and lose side in the group however, the group as whole loses because it fails to achieve its long -range goal the losing side is not motivated to carry out the winning decision communication becomes limited group cohesion decrasesno-lose problem solving all people in the group have the right to have their needs met conflict can be constructive that what is in conflict between the two sides can lead to the solutions to those needs steps to the no -lose problem solving approach .identify and define the needs of each opposing side .generate possible alternative solutions .evaluate the alternative solutions .decide on the best acceptable solution .work out ways of implementing the solution .evaluate how it worked suggested ways to resolve conflicts in group .empathy -.. what you seem to be saying is - sense that you feel ________ about this issue. .inquiry -using gentle, probing questions to learn more about what the other person is thinking and feeling .-messages -.gi am sorry that am bit confused. could you please elaborate (instead of using you -message, .. you are very confusing to the topic) suggested ways to resolve conflicts in group .empathy -.. what you seem to be saying is - sense that you feel ________ about this issue. .inquiry -using gentle, probing questions to learn more about what the other person is thinking and feeling .-messages -.gi am sorry that am bit confused. could you please elaborate (instead of using you -message, .. you are very confusing to the topic) suggested ways to resolve conflicts in group . disarming -finding some truth in what the other person (or side) is saying and then expressing your agreement - even if you feel that the other person is largely wrong, unreasonable, irrational or unfair . stroking -saying something genuinely positive to the person (or side) you are in conflict with, even in the heat of battle. -stroking tells the other person that you respect him/her even though both of you may be angry. another big problem of working in group what is the problem? conflicts involving interpersonal relationship how to resolve it? resolving your conflicts effectively .please describe serious interpersonal conflict that you had with someone who was important to you. .what conflict resolution strategies did you use to attempt to resolve the conflict? .what conflict resolution strategies did the other person seek to use? were they the same or different? .has the conflict been successfully resolved? if yes, describe what conflict resolution strategies led to the resolution. if no, specify why it has not been resolved. .what do you think will be the conflict resolution strategies that you intend to use in future? approaches to decision making .consensus of the group .simple majority vote .two-thirds or three -fourths majority vote .delegated decision, .. by group leader, experts .multiple voting .averaging individual opinions do you like conflicts? do you fear conflicts?why ? fill in the blank: conflicts are to be __________. avoided? solved? learned from? conflict strategies same as when you engage in negotiation, you have to take into account two major concerns in resolving conflicts: your personal goals your relationship with the other person() conflict strategies the turtle (withdrawing): you give up both your goals and relationship; withdrawing from conflict over an important issue with friend is quite destructive; but sometimes it is useful, .. when dealing with hostile stranger. personal goal relationship conflict strategies the shark (forcing): you try to achieve your goals at all costs, no matter how much it hurts the relationship; never use force with someone you will have to relate to again soon; we may use it when .. buying used car. personal goal relationship conflict strategies the teddy bear (smoothing): you give up your goals, let the other person achieve his/ hers in order to maintain the relationship at high level; when the goal is actually of high importance to you, smoothing tends to be destructive, .. when you satisfy your partners sexual needs when you dont actually want to. personal goal relationship conflict strategies the fox (compromising): you give up part of your goals and sacrifice part of the relationship; when you wish to solve problem but time is short, compromise is useful, .. compromise on the destination of travel. personal goal relationship conflict strategies the owl (problem solving/ negotiating): you initiate negotiations aimed at ensuring that you and the other person both achieve your goals and maintain high -quality relationship; maximizes joint benefit and resolve any tensions and negative feelings. personal goal relationship conflict strategies turtle teddy bear shark owl relationship -oriented task -orientedfox whats next? you will negotiate for win-win solutionnow you understand your communication patterns negotiation you negotiate to get through conflicting goals. the steps in general: .clarify and be aware of your goals; .listen to the other persons goals; .communicate for mutual understanding; .(creatively) generate and (respectfully) evaluate solutions for joint benefits.remember what to do . tell what you want in descriptive, non -evaluative way; . tell how you feel in descriptive, non -evaluative way; . explain the reasons for what you want and for your feelings; . ask about and listen to what the other person wants, feel, and their reasons for those wants and feelings. . reverse perspectives by summarizing what the other person wants and feels and the reasons underlying those wants and feelings; . take into consider both partners needs, suggest options to maximize joint benefits; . evaluate jointly with the other partner each of the options.constructive negotiationrecall conclusions the stereotypes you hold reflect certain values of yours. building positive relationships requires you to reduce your internal barriers doing so, including stereotypes and prejudice. transactional analysis will be most accurate if non -verbal messages are also taken into account. while adult -adult complementary transaction is most constructive and crossed transactions are most destructive, ulterior messages are the heart of all psychological games. references to know more about stereotypes: johnson, . . (). ch . barriers to interpersonal effectiveness. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self -actualization (10th ed., pp. -). upper saddle river, ..: pearson. corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole. to know more about transactional analysis: guirdham, . (). interpersonal skills at work . new york: prentice hall. jongeward, ., & james, . (). winning with people: group exercises in transactional analysis . reading, mass.: addison -wesley publishing co.. umstot, . . (). understanding organizational behavior (2nd ed.). st. paul: west pub. co.. eoc announces findings of the exploratory study on gender stereotyping and its impact on male gender ( ) apple daily -- references to know more about positive psychology: ben-shahar , tal. (). positive psychology . video of positive psychology course ( psy ) of harvard university . ben-shahar, tal. (). happier: learn the secrets to daily joy and lasting fulfillment . new york: mcgraw -hill. ben-shahar, tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life . new york: mcgraw -hill. goldberg, . (, march ). harvards crowded course to happiness: positive psychology draws students in droves, the boston globe. (retrieved september , , from s_crowded_course_to_happiness/) references to know more about emotion: west, . ., & turner, . . (). ch . communication and emotion. understanding interpersonal communication: making choices in changing times (2nd ed., pp. -). boston: thomson/wadsworth. johnson, . . (). ch . expressing your feelings nonverbally. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self-actualization (9th ed., pp. -). boston: pearson & . ekman, ., & friesen, . . (). unmasking the face. cambridge,ma: malor books. to know more about negotiation: johnson, . . (). ch . resolving interpersonal conflicts. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self - actualization (9th ed., pp. -). boston: pearson & .
sm3809 software art studio review, surveypermutations: every iconpresentation: michael reevesimplementing markov-chainsgithub: repos and pagescritique #: generatorskata: permutations, json apisthis week evolutionary programming jon mccormack, fifty sisters, series of fifty evolved digital plant images using oil company logos as building blocks. use evolutionary algorithms to create artificial life forms that would be almost impossible to design directly. fifty sisters, jon mccormack - permutation incomplete open cubes() sol lewitt permutation with every icon, john simon wrote program that explores every combination of black and white squares in 32x32 grid, discovering near-innite number of images on its way. the duration of journey through the icon space exceeds human imagination.every icon, john simon jr. (, ) survey kata: permutationscreate sketch that shows each every six-digit combination of the numbers from -, updating every milliseconds how many possible numbers are there ? what base are the numbers in the display? select code artist that we have not yet discussed, and *register* your artist with me create min presentation for the class further details to come...presentations presentations -grams canvas vs the dom important git commands$ git clone [repo-url] $ git add [files] $ git commit $ git push $ git pulllets practice critique: assignment 7presentations json is simple and very common data formatit is used to store data as strings for exchangeit is based on javascript (thus, the json)json has types of things, which should be familiar: propertiesarraysobjectsapis/jsonjavascript object notation (json) first, properties (or variables):these are key/value pairs:"id": , "name": "david", "active": truekey: value -> with pairs separated by commasapis/jsonjson each object in json is surrounded with { and }an example:{ "username": "david", "studentid": }, { "username": "feng", "studentid": }, { "username": "chiwon", "studentid": }, apis/jsonjson arrays in json are surrounded with [ and ] :[ "monday", "tuesday", "wednesday", "thursday", "friday", "saturday" ] an array of objects:[ { "username": "david", "studentid": "" }, { "username": "feng", "studentid": "" }, { "username": "chiwon", "studentid":"" }, ] apis/jsonjson types of things: variables, arrays, objectsvery similar to js except that keys need quotationsno classes or functions, it is data onlyall data is stored as string, to be sent back and forthand that' basically all there is to itapis/json json let jsobject = json.parse(stringcontainingjson); let jsonstring = json.stringify(jsobject);apis/json json functionsparse() & stringify() view the json weather data for this week in hk at this [url]explore how the json data is organized and structuredlater we will talk about how to fetch such data yourself, but for now just copy it and add to sketch as shown ->now create simple visualization of the weather datakata: exploring json let data; function preload(){ data = loadjson('hkweather.json'); } function setup() { createcanvas(, ); textalign(center); textsize(); } function draw() { background(); text(data.city.name, , ); } kata: using an apiread about the weather api [here]use loadjson to get the data for hong kong.explore how the json data is organized and structurednow modify your visualization to use this new data
hardware hacking sm3610 sema / dr alvaro cassinelli (thu)office: m6028lecture 8kinematic sensors (position, angle, speed)dynamic (inertial) sensors: accelerationreal time control loop (pid control)balancing robot (mobile inverted pendulum) kinematics: position, angle, speedrangefinders (linear position)we have seen sensor that can help position device with respect to other things: the ultrasound rangefinder. more evolved rangefinders can generate 3d map of the environment, either by scanning (lidar scanners) or using 3d cameras (kinect...) position sensors (rangefinder, camera)rangefinders.we have seen sensor that can help position device with respect to other things: the ultrasound rangefinder. more evolved rangefinders can generate 3d map of the environment, either by scanning (lidar scanners) or using 3d cameras (kinect...)cameras and depth cameras.... and computer vision!recently, computer vision has become very powerful and cheap. even an arduinocan be able to see, detect markers in the environment (or faces, etc!) example: the pixy camera detect objects, and send that data through the serial port to the arduino... angles, and angular speed optical rotary encoder (mouse wheel!) bend sensorobviously, potentiometer: .. or magnetic encoder (motor speed control) speed (odometry) from rotary encoderfrom optical flow or from position (derivative) or acceleration (integration)visualodometry (from optical flow for instance) is used in the optical mouse, in robotics.. and bees (and humans). arduino has computer vision shields that are capable of that and more. optical rotary encoder bonus: hacking an optical mouse to measure speed (optical flow) the optical mouse sensor is in fact very low-res camera (adns2620) with processor to compute the optical flow and obviously, someone made an arduino library for this:adns2620 arduino libraryadns2620 ...but you can get the pixels too! titan ii (intercontinental ballistic missile)inertial guidance system micro-electro-mechanical sensor (mems) relying on capacitance change: seismographearthquake directionaldetector (circa 132dc), by zhang heng dynamics: forces, acceleration note: kinematics from dynamics (forces)kinematics is the study of movementdynamics is the study of forcescausing these movements we can measure kinematic parameters (position, speed, orientation) from direct observation (cameras for instance), ...or determine them indirectly, if we can measure accelerations (translation and rotation) because: = . since the windows are closed, we cannot directly measure the acceleration of the car with respect to the outside; but what we feel inside the car is an acceleration in the opposite direction, ., fictitious force. note: force sensorsforce sensors are used everywhere, for instance in force sensitive buttons, weight scales, flex sensors, etc(you have seen one: the piezo transducer!) the accelerometer is in fact soecialtype of force sensor: it measures the fictitious force generated by the accelerating referential frame where it is embedded (ex: by measuring the elongation of spring) so, an accelerometer measure forcesyou apply to an object (provided their mass is fixed). thats why they can be used as gesture controllers, or for measure inclination, stabilize drones... ) the accelerometer(one, two or three axis)) the gyroscope(also axis)) magnetometer (absolute orientation) inertial sensing is big subject. these sensors are used in cars, for navigation in ships and spaceships, robotics, human-machine interfaces (gesture detection, motion detection, wearables), drone stabilization, free-fall/hit detector (in hard disks), persistence of vision displays, head orientation in ar/vr gear, etc. these sensors are often combined in single device with absolute orientation/position sensor such as the magnetometer or magnetic compass, the odometer (measuring position/speed with light or mechanical means), the altimeter (inferring height by changes in pressure), the gps, or even tracking cameras. such devices are called an inertial measurement unit or imu. 11inertial motion unit there are many types of embedded sensors capable of giving information about position, velocity, acceleration and rotation (without looking outside). the process of updating position (and/or orientation) blindly, only using these felt forces is done by first integrating the acceleration to get the speed, then integrating the speed to get the position. computing orientation from the insideobviously, if you cannot see (stars or the room), nor measure magnetic fields like birds do!) you cannot orient yourself... or can you?suppose you are in car (no windows), and you know where you are and your orientation, and suppose you can feel and measure accelerations and rotations... you can then approximate the final position and orientation!this is done in inertial motion units (or inertial guidance systems) and its still widely used in all sort of devices, from boats, planes, drones, missiles... and the segwayfor instance (orientation with respect to the vertical). today we will study one sensor that compose this device, the accelerometer. step integration? painful lessons from marine navigation... dead reckoning (path integration): estimation of current position by knowing the previous position, the speed and the elapsed time. measuring the step was done by measuring the direction (compass) and the speed of the boat by chip logging, .ethrowing rope with knots and counting as they passed by at the end of the boat (thats why speed at sea is measured in knots). that has lotof drift! history is plagued with terrible navigation mistakes...the invention of the marine chronometer (18thcentury)( changed everything: one could measure the time at departure and at arrival (from the sun and latitude); exactly knowing the duration of the trip would then give longitude! latitude: easy with celestial navigation (sextant and compass)longitude? challenge until the 18thcentury!! today with an embedded system such as an arduino you can get magnetic compass, inertial motion units, gps + beidou+ qzss, gsm, sms broadcast, bt and of course an extremely precise real time clock (rtc)... all that for few dollars. orientation and stabilization of drones, planes, etcgesture controllers for games, etc.. ... today we will demonstrate simple example: controlling the angle of servo using the accelerometer inclination... what can youdo with them? with little more work, you will be able to create your own segway! funny example of kinematic integration from inertial measurements (accelerometer and gyro) we may want to convert that in meters per second squared (/) or in -"forces"(). 1gis the acceleration of free-falling object onearth, equal to to . / hands on: analog accelerometer sensor adxl335it has three axis, each measuring the acceleration in that direction. the adxl335 is an analog sensor: it gives output voltages(on per axis) zyx attention!!! itis powered by .3v, not 5v, dont burn it!setup since the accelerometer measures force, it will sense the force of gravity and gives us corresponding upward acceleration of .81m/s2or 1g accelerometer and inclination...in fact, einstein realized that the force of gravity is in fact fictitious force -one could have suspected since it is proportional to the mass of the object. core code range of raw output ( ~ ) mapped to (-., .) with custom function range of raw output (-) mapped to (-., .) with custom function with float precision, because arduino map() function only work with integers... setting the adc analog referencefrom data sheet, the accelerometer range is -3g to 3git is radiometric device, meaning that it gives voltage between (for -3g) to vcc= .3v for 3g (in each axis). so, analogread(..) reads values between and ( = ./*). but this means we will be loosing precision!what if corresponded to .3v instead? fortunately, it is possible to set the maximiumof the arduino adc to something else than 5v, using the function analogreference(external). default: the default analog reference of volts (on 5v arduino boards) or . volts (on .3v arduino boards)internal: an built-in reference, equal to . volts on the atmega168 or atmega328p external: the voltage applied to the aref pin ( to 5v only) is used as the reference. manual calibrationproblem: the values may be not accurate at all: when you put the axis up or down, the mapf(...) function does not return or -, and when it is horizontal, it does not give )this is because analog sensors like this one are different from one to the other. the manual calibration procedure is very simple: ensure the axis is up, and measure the raw value. let say it reads . reverse it ( down), and measure again. lets say it gives . then you know that:6001g -1gfloatgz= mapf(az_raw, , , -, );meaning that the mapffunction parameters are: (and gzis the acceleration in gs) code with analog reference and calibration 10230604612calibration:the values may be not accurate at all (when you put the axis up or down, the mapf(...) function does not return or -, and when it is horizontal, it does not give ). this is because analog sensors like this one are different from one to the other. you may need to calibrate each axis by measuring the value when the axis point up, and then down. for instance:, on axis : measuring slope in degrees (maintain axis parallel to the table this is to simplify the calculation for the slope in degrees)az= analogread(a0) zx1g alpha takes values between and degrees ...only two new lines of code -just copy this for the time being if you dont understand. 180accelerometer zx( is parallel to the table) cleaning the noise with recursive average.. equivalent to an analog lpf digital accelerometer (in your kit) -axis digital accelerometer (lis3dhtr)lot of preprocessing: reduce noise, self-calibrationeven detection (ex: fall detection,)advanced imu functions: data fusion (accelerometer, magnetometer, and gyroscope) to generate robust pose estimation (euler angles, quaternions) i2c is serial protocoltwo wires: sda(data), scl(clock).bus topology with slavesand masters(the later use the bus alternatively. they cannot communicate unless one of them reconfigure as slave)to talk to device, its addressis broadcasted (no need of an additional slave select wire). three speeds: 100kb/ (standard), 400kb/ (fast) and .4mb/ (high-speed). the sda and scl lines should be pulled up with pair of resistors only once. the i2c protocoldigital sensors and i2cmore advanced inertial motion units give lot more data, and already processed... how to get that information? (cannot be from analog pins...). serial? #include <wire.> this is transparent for you: libraries! ... only thing to take care: the device should be connected to the sda/scl port i2c address wrong in the arduino example! hands on (together) ) download library: ) open an example press button to record the slope (angle or just the value of az)beep buzzer whenever the device is on the same slopenote: for simpler code., maintain at least one axis horizontal.if you feel more confident, use the oled display to show the value record...same!! beepnot same... digital protractor [to try]use the slope (in degrees) measured in the previous exercise to control the angle of servo motor and make self-stabilized spoon! servo motor 1800accelerometer only one degree of freedom two degrees of freedom... and three degrees of freedom! ...you can stabilize too systems with all three degrees of freedom (pitch, tilt, roll).this is used to stabilize drones or cameras. an inertial motion unit will simplify your life... ...but with even more sensors and actuators, it is also possible to stabilize all kinematic parameters: that is, the orientation and position, or degrees of freedom. reminder: how to control servo motor?obviously, it depends on the electronic inside the device...the most common servos are controlled by pwm signalthe pwm frequency is typically 50hz (period of msec), with pulse limited to about or msecdepending on the model (max duty cycle % or %) the angle is proportional to the length of the pulse. ... the pwm signal generated with analogwrite(...) is 490hz signal, so we cannot use this directly. we either do it by hand, or we use library (it is core library in the arduino framework). servo-motor control (core library) pin as simple as that using the servo. librarynote: the power (for small servos it can be 5v) word on pid control... real systemmodel setpoint: angle= pid library making self balancing robot (segway)?to make self balancing robot, you need to precisely measure the tilt angle. however, unless you use rotary encoder, the measurement from accelerometer will not be right: it only works when the object is static! having precise data from the wheels speed and performing some math, it is possible to compute the angle; another way is to use data from gyroscopeand accelerometer. after some considerations, the final formula is very simple: there is one last problem though: if you do that, your balancing robot may start to oscillate and finally fall. the reason is that the correction can overshoot or on the contrary not be enough. this is typical problem of feedback control of robotic systems... pidsetpoint ()+-errorpwm (-bridge) imu measured angle accelerometergyroscope the trick... ...use an accelerometer and gyroscope to estimate the angle! (*) (*) more on this here: example of self-balancing line-following robot the core of the control code is just few lines (but pid calibration is delicate) reboot -week workshop (uruguay)
sm3809 software art studio review hacking / scraping / nodepresentation: zach liebermankata: regular expressionsfinal projects: optionsmore js: debugging, static functionsclient / server with nodemachine learning part ithis week generative artcritical software artbots (twitter, mastodon, weibo)statistical methods (-grams, -systems)rule-based systemsdata-scraping natural languagewebsite spoongfinal projects review: regular expressionsregular expressions are powerful mini- language for matching patterns in text, part of nearly all programming languages. what is regular expression? in it' simplest form, regular expression is string of symbols to match "as is". regex matches abc abcabcabc regular expressions quantiers so what if you want to match several characters? you can use quantifier. the most important quantifiers are *, ?, and +. * matches any number of what' before it, from zero to infinity ? matches zero or one + matches one or more regex matches * , , , ? , , , + , , regular expressions regular expressionscharacter classes you can group characters by putting them between square brackets. any character in the class will match one character in the input. [abc] match any of or or [-] match any lowercase letter between and . [^abc] caret ^ at the beginning indicates "not". in this case, match anything other than , , or . [+*?.] most special characters have no meaning inside the square brackets. this expression matches any of + or * or ? or dot grouping and alternatives it' often necessary to group things together with parentheses ( and ) regex matches does not match (ab)+ ab, abab, ababab aabb (aa|bb)+ aa, bbaa, aabbaaaa abab regular expressions to test regex against string in javascript, do one of the following: regular expressions notice the ^ and $ which denote the start and end of the the string. you can omit these if you need to match only substring... lets try some more practice again, it may be useful to first create some tests... .write pattern to match only valid hk phone numbers. .write pattern to match only valid cityu email addresses. .write pattern to match valid english sentences. regular expressions critique: assignment 9presentations the terminalquery-stringnetwork requestscurl, fetch, nodereview: scraping lets practice uniform resource locators (urls) the query string scraping with node working in nodenode.js is one of the most popular platforms for js now with node, we can use any editor, then run our programs via the terminal we can also use 'npm' to install any packages or libraries we need if you dont have it already, install node on our computer, which you can do with homebrew (preferred), or via direct download from here: working in nodeonce we install node, we should be able to check the version of the node and npm commands in our terminal: this lets us know that everything is working as expected... working in nodethe npm ecosystem contains huge number of compatible programs that we can use in node.js to install with npm, we can simply use: $ npm install <package-name> for example, here is the entry for puppeteer working in nodeas an example. creating new project with node and puppeteer, involves steps: $ mkdir scraping $ cd scraping $ npm init - $ npm install puppeteer working in nodeyou should see something like this: now lets create le, then open it for editing $ touch index.js $ nano index.jsnano is text-based editor on linux systems working in nodehere is template that you can reuse for your scripts using puppeteer: let puppeteer = require('puppeteer'); (async () => { let browser = await puppeteer.launch(); // your code here await browser.close(); })(); copy/paste from the slides (or in-class-code) working in nodenow lets try to write script that goes to web page and then takes screenshot: let puppeteer = require('puppeteer'); (async () => { let browser = await puppeteer.launch(); // your code here await browser.close(); })(); other refs:css selectors cheatsheet lets do some practice collecting quotations node serverlets explore very simple node web server const http = require('http'); const requestlistener = function(req, res) { res.writehead(); res.end('hello, world!'); } const server = http.createserver(requestlistener); server.listen(); machine learning perceptrons building neural network the problemwe have data set containing the location of buildings in neighborhood, and the number of virus cases in that building.we need to nd (straight) quarantine line to separate buildings with cases from those with none. more resources neural networks lets try to code one together dataset at the data[{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases },{ lat, long, cases }, ]can we use machine learning? neural networksstep (exercise) using p5js load the json dataset from the url belownormalize all values to the range between - and 1then render it onscreen as below, with locations that have cases shown in different color dataset at ** location with latitude= and longitude= should be at the center of the canvas static functions static functions are like global functions within class. you dont need an instance of the class (an object) to call them. because of this they also cannot refer to any of the properties of the class the following example defines static method called createanonymous() for the person class: static functions you would call the static function as follows: notice that you are calling on the class, not an (object) instance. if you call static function with an object, you will get an error debugging debuggingthree ways we can debug: using console.log using the ide debugger using the browser debugger view the json weather data for this week in hk at this [url]explore how the json data is organized and structuredlater we will talk about how to fetch such data yourself, but for now just copy it and add to sketch as shown ->now create simple visualization of the weather datakata: exploring json let data; function preload(){ data = loadjson('hkweather.json'); } function setup() { createcanvas(, ); textalign(center); textsize(); } function draw() { background(); text(data.city.name, , ); } kata: using an apiread about the weather api [here]use loadjson to get the data for hong kong.explore how the json data is organized and structurednow modify your visualization to use this new data
sm2715 creative coding general programming with processing language manfred lau float ( decimal number such as .) boolean (either true or false) color ( type or to specify rgb color ) stroke() function nostroke () function array ( set of elements) string ( sequence of characters) for loop (to iterate through ifrom one value to another) 2d arrays ( 2d grid of values) translate() function (,) -axisx-axis(,) -axisx-axis rotate() function float angle = .; void setup() { size(,); } void draw() { background(); translate(,); rotate(angle); rect(,,,); } void mouseclicked () { angle = angle + (pi/.); }pi is in radians pi is equal to degrees recall that degrees is right angle so pi/ is right angle and pi/ is degree scale() function float sx= .; float sy= .; void setup() { size(,); } void draw() { background(); scale( sx,sy ); rect(,,,); } void mousepressed () { if (mousebutton == left) { sx= sx+.; } else if ( mousebutton == right) { sy= sy+.; } }note also the detection of the left and right mouse presses here sin() function println (sin(radians())); println (sin(radians())); println (sin(radians())); println (sin(radians())); println (sin(radians())); size(,); for (int = ; <=; +=) { line( , , , +sin(radians( ))*); } try changing the value of and , and see the result pi is in radians pi is equal to degrees pi/ is equal to degrees functions recursion class ( group of related variables and functions to compute something with them) from unit02, look at exercises and
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session introduction to the course welcome to the course get to know each other introduction of the course explanation of the course design, assessment tasks and criteria warm up .class rules: confidentiality, acceptance, respect, be supportive .self-introduction: -what do you want to be called in this class .what will be your expectation in this course? class rules mutual respect non-judgmental, be accepting and supportive keep confidentiality be honest while signing your attendance active participation is expected for experiential learning. for in -class assignments, submission needs to be completed within the session. submission through emails is not accepted. note: attendance and active participation is only necessary but not sufficient condition for getting high grade. special notes according to the latest regulations announced by the university, this course will be conducted in face -to-face setting. all students are required to come back to the campus for class attendance. no classes via online zoom platform will be arranged unless there is further university announcement of any new arrangement. if students have difficulties in coming back to the campus to attend the classes, please make an official application request to our department with justification and supporting documents. without formal approval, students must come back to campus for class attendance. learn to fail or fail to learn nobody likes to fail. but failure is an inescapable part of life and critically important part of any successful life . we learn to walk by falling, to talk by babbling, to shoot basket by missing, and to color the inside of square by scribbling outside the box. those who intensely fear failing end up falling short of their potential . we either learn to fail or we fail to learn . (ben -shahar , :xvi) learn to fail or fail to learn there is no other way to learn and ultimately succeed. (ben -shahar , :) there is no other way to grow, no other way to learn, no other way to become more resilient, happier, more successful. no short cut in our learning and growth process but be brave to get up, rebound and learn from our failures. dont need to be embarrassed as we are not perfect, everybody got failure experiences in our learning and growth process. ( learn to fail or fail to learnwe need to accept that the journey will not always be smooth straight line. we will inevitably encounter obstacles and detours along the way. we need to be in touch with reality and shift from the perfectionist vision of failure free, flawless smooth straight line of success tosomething more like an irregular upward spiral . (source: ben -shahar, :) references : beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. ben-shahar, tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life . new york: mcgraw -hill. format of filename for in -class assignments please use the following format when you upload the in -class assignments: your name_student id_assignment no.
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : building your visualization & style guidedr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk building your visualization vi visualization style guide 03exercise & project design part one building your visualization vi visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? visualizationexampleswhatswrongwiththesevisualizationexamples? comparing categoriestimedistributionbuilding your visualization geospatialpart-to-wholequalitativerelationship relationshipscatterplot when both variables get bigger or smaller simultaneously, they are positively correlated. relationshipscatterplot relationshipscatterplot one way to make the correlation even clearer is to add line of best fit to the scatterplot. (regression line or trend line) relationshipscatterplot how do we get the regression line?ols(ordinaryleastsquare)regression relationshipscatterplot the importance of visuals of the data.never rely on summary statistics alone. relationshipbubble plot the scatterplot can be transformed into bubble plot by varying the sizes of the circles according to third variable. relationshipbubble plot be careful with the use of color. relationshipbubble plot be careful with the use of annotation. relationshipcorrelation matrixa table with the variables listed along the horizontal and vertical axes.numbers in each cell represent the strength of that relationship. relationshipcorrelation matrix relationshipcorrelation matrix relationshipremember!!correlation does not equal causal relationship. exercisebox-and-whisker plot to show the distribution of data exercisebox-and-whisker plot show the distribution of prices for different property types:analysis-un-select aggregate measures exercisebox-and-whisker plot show the distribution of prices for different property types:use filter to select top five exercisebox-and-whisker plot show the distribution of prices for different property types:right click to edit the box exercisescatter plotan investigation of the relationship between price and review scores rating exercisescatter plotan investigation of the relationship between price and review scores ratingright clickshow trend lines exercisescatter plotan investigation of the relationship between price and review scores ratinghow to read: price=.*rsr+.85r-squaredp-value exercisescatter plotan investigation of the relationship between price and review scores ratingr-squared indicates how much percentage of ys variance can be explained by the change of .it shows the explanatory power of the whole expression/model. exercisescatter plotan investigation of the relationship between price and review scores ratingr-squared indicates how much percentage of ys variance can be explained by the change of .it shows the explanatory power of the whole expression/model. exercisescatter plotan investigation of the relationship between price and review scores rating exercisescatter plotan investigation of the relationship between price and review scores rating exercisecombine axis shading in scatter plot exercisecombine axis shading in scatter plot exercisecombine axis shading in scatter plot qualitative there are graphs that communicate qualitative data, non-numerical information collected through means of observations, interviews, focus groups, surveys, and other methods.the following charts primarily communicate words and phrases.qualitative data can help build narratives and tell stories. downloading big data set, running regressions, and creating tables may provide more generalizable results, but readers dont connect to them the way they connect to story. qualitative iconsiconography can help visualize your qualitative data. icons can represent data (as in unit or isotype chart), or they can guide the reader from one phase of visual to the next.they may also help readers with certain intellectual or cognitive disabilities engage with your work. qualitative iconsan example of how icons can be used to support research and analysis qualitative word clouds and specific wordsword clouds are perhaps the most popular and familiar way to visualize qualitative data, but they are really way to display quantitative data: the number of times word appears in text. in word cloud, the size of each word is adjusted according to its frequency in passage.these graphs are best used to visualize overallpatterns or where single value is obvious and stands out. it is less appropriate in cases where finding the specific values is especially important. qualitative word clouds and specific wordschallenges:it is unclear what the specific frequency of each word is in the text.some words may appear larger (and therefore more significant) than others because of their length, orientation, font, or color. qualitative word clouds and specific words qualitative word clouds and specific wordsanother approach to creating effective word clouds may be to separate the overall body of text into semantic groupingswords grouped by their meaning.organizing the text into semantic groups and then creating set of smaller multiple word clouds. qualitative word clouds and specific words qualitative word treesanother way to visualize text data is to examine the contexts in which different words appear.word trees show all of the ways in which specific words are used within text. the tree structure shows that combinations in which each word appears within the text, and the words are sized according to their frequency. qualitative word trees qualitative word trees qualitative specific wordsanother way to visualize qualitative text data is to combine individual words with quantitative metric.example: instead of set of bars, the author plotted the artists name, using color to distinguish the decade of album release. qualitative specific wordswe can see shift over time toward fewer words (more names in red to the left side of the graph). qualitative quotes if context is important, visualizing individual words is not the most useful way to show your qualitative data. sometimes, you need to show full quotations. qualitative quotes qualitative quotes qualitative coloring phrasesdepending on the goal of your visual, highlighting specific portions of text may be useful to summarize your analysis. you can do so by highlighting with color or boldface to make important passages visible to your reader. qualitative coloring phrases qualitative coloring phrasesdarwins on the origin of species was actually the fifth draft, so by color-coding each word in the final text by the edition in which it first appeared, we can see the evolution of darwins writing and thinking over several years. qualitative coloring phrasesdarwins on the origin of species was actually the fifth draft, so by color-coding each word in the final text by the edition in which it first appeared, we can see the evolution of darwins writing and thinking over several years. qualitative matrices and listsif showing an entire qualitative data set is impossible, we can simplify and organize the data into groups or categories.essentially, this approach creates table of qualitative data so readers can more easily see the arguments and narratives.with this method, we can use lists to make it easier for our reader to navigate through what might be very dense data set. qualitative matrices and lists tablesy es, tables are form of data visualization.if you want to show the exact amount of every value in your data, table might be your best solution.yet, tables are especially susceptible to clutter. tables10 primary components of table: tables10 primary components of table:.title. use concise, active titles..subtitle. this sits below the title, often in smaller font size or set in different color to differentiate it. the subtitle should specify the units of the data in the table or make secondary point..subheads or column headers. there are the titles of your columns..rules. the lines that separate the parts of the table from one other..border. the set of lines that surround the table. tables10 primary components of table:. columns, rows and cells.. spanner header and spanner rule. the text and line that span multiple columns. text is usually centered over the multiple columns.. gridlines. the intersecting lines within the table that separate the cells.. footer. the bottom area of table where you might include row for the total or average.. sources and notes. the text below table containing the citation or additional details or notes to the table. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesthese guidelines will take us from tables that have too much color, lines, and clutter to ones in which readers can easily see the important numbers and patterns.rule : offset the headers from bodymake your column titles clear. try using boldface text or lines to offset them from the numbers and text in the body of the table. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesthese guidelines will take us from tables that have too much color, lines, and clutter to ones in which readers can easily see the important numbers and patterns.rule : offset the headers from bodymake your column titles clear. try using boldface text or lines to offset them from the numbers and text in the body of the table. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : offset the headers from body tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : use subtitle dividers instead of heavy gridlinesfor series that show special values, use shading, boldface, or subtle line breakers to distinguish these. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : right-align numbers and headersright-align numbers along the decimal place or comma. you might need to add zeros to maintain the alignment, but its worth it so the numbers are easier to read and scan. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : right-align numbers and headersalways use fonts that have lining numbers, where all the numerals hit the baseline, and non drop below it. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : left-align text and headeronce weve right-aligned the numbers, we should left-align the text.the english language is read from left to right, so lining up the entries in that way generates an even, vertical border and is natural for the reader. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : select the appropriate level of precisionprecision to the fifth-decimal place is almost never necessary. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : guide your reader with space between rows and columnsyour use of space in and around the table can influence the direction in which your reader reads the data.by comparison, the table on the right has more space between the rows and your eye is more likely to track horizontally rather than vertically. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : remove unit repetitionrepeating the symbol throughout the table is overkill and cluttering. use the title or column title area to define the units, or place them in the first row only. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : highlight outliershighlight outliers values by making the text boldface, shading it with color, or even shading the entire cell.guide readers to those important numbers lets them answer their own questions about the data or better comprehend your argument. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : highlight outliers tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : group similar data and increase white spacereduce repetition by grouping similar data or labels. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : add visualizations when appropriate we can make larger changes to our tables by adding small visualizations.you might add sparklines to visualize some data, or use small bar charts to visually illustrate series of numbers. you could use heatmap and leave the numbers in the table. you can also embed chart-type structure right into the table. tablesthe ten guidelines of better tablesrule : add visualizations when appropriate tablesdemonstration: basic data table redesignthe table presents the number of people who participate in the program (estimates for states from to ). tablesdemonstration: basic data table redesigna better one: tablesdemonstration: basic data table redesignadding some visuals and color to the table: tablesdemonstration: basic data table redesignadding some visuals and color to the table: 02developing data visualization style guide part two visualization stylea data visualization style guide does for graphs what the chicago manual of style does for english grammar.it defines the components of graph and their proper, consistent use. comprehensive data visualization style guide breaks down the parts of graphs, charts, and tables to demonstrate best practices and strategies to design and style your charts. visualization stylethe anatomy of graphto set graph styles, we should first define each part of graph. visualization stylethe anatomy of grapha different style: visualization stylethe anatomy of graph visualization stylecolor palettecolor has unmistakable power in our visualizations.it may be the first thing people notice about our graphs. color can evoke emotions and draw attention.successful brands have recognizable color palettes for everything from their logo and letterhead to their data visualizations. but palette that works for company letterhead or website may not necessarily work for line chart with five lines. style guide should contain different schemes to guide chart creators in their color choices. visualization stylecolor palettethere are five primary color schemes you can apply to your data visualizations.binary.two categories visualization stylecolor palettesequential.data values that are logically arranged from low to high should use sequential color schemes. low values are usually represented by light colors. visualization stylecolor palettediverging.in this scheme, the colors progress outward, growing darker from central midpoint. diverging color palette will share sequential schemes on two different colors and diverge from shared, lighter color, for example, deviations from zero or central number. visualization stylecolor palettecategorical.color schemes that use separate colors to represent nominal differences, for example, different race or gender groups. visualization stylecolor palettehighlighting.this is special case of the categorical color scheme. these color schemes highlight certain value or group within the visualization. for example, we could use this palette to emphasize single or small group of points in scatterplot. visualization stylecolor palettetransparency.not so much color scheme but technique for using color, transparency in graph objects lets us (and our reader) see the object behind it. you can use transparent colorswith or without solid borderto make overlapping objects visible. visualization stylecolor palette visualization stylecolor palette--avoid the rainbowwhen choosing color palette, avoid the rainbow color palette. in most cases, the rainbow palette is poor choice for visualizing your data. visualization stylecolor palettecolors and culturefinally, be mindful that colors can reinforce stereotypes or hold different meanings in different cultures. instead of the standard pink bluepairing, consider using other color combinations such as purples and greens (as in the telegraph newspaper) or blues and oranges (as in the guardian).more generally, also consider how different cultures use and perceive different colors. in western cultures, for example, the color red may evoke emotions of passion and excitement and has both positive and negative associations. in eastern cultures, however, the color red represents happiness, joy, and celebration. in india, red relates to purity, and in japan it is associated with life, anger, and danger. visualization styledefining fonts for the style guidebe wary of custom fontsa custom font can differentiate your style from the standard fonts found in, for instance, the microsoft office package. but beware: using custom fonts requires that they be installed on any machine that shows the graph.default fonts like century gothic, tahoma, trebuchet ms, and verdana are examples of effective fonts for data visualization that are available on most operating systems but are less commonly used and therefore appear more novel. visualization styledefining fonts for the style guide visualization styleexporting imagesonce visualization is ready for external consumption, the chart creator must export it to usable file format. this is another opportunity for things to go wrong: improper exporting might compress the resolution and pixelate the whole image. visualization styleexporting imageschoosing the right file format for your visualizations is key. there are many file formatsfrom which to choose, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. the biggest difference between image file formats is whether they are bitmap or vector.images in bitmap format (also called raster) are stored as series of squares (called pixels), each assigned specific color. when you take bitmap image and stretch it out, the pixels get larger and the resolution falls.as opposed to bitmap images, vector images contain information about the actual shape in the image. vector image is recreated when you stretch it, so it wont lose resolution the way bitmap images do. visualization styleexporting imageschoosing the right file format for your visualizations is key. there are many file formatsfrom which to choose, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. the biggest difference between image file formats is whether they are bitmap or vector. visualization styleexporting imageshow you and your organization guide the export of graphs from software tool to the final product depends on variety of factors, including the primary data visualization software tool, operating system, and where the final output will appear: will it be in pdf report? standalone image on website? embedded in tweet? the best strategy is to try variety of approaches, but double-check the final product to make sure you have the sharpest, clearest image possible. visualization styleaccessibility , diversity and inclusionmany people with vision impairments rely on screen readers to navigate the internet. screen reader reads the content on screen aloud to the user, so if you post graph with the filename image1.png, that is what the user will hear. people with other physical, cognitive, or intellectual disabilities may have difficulty reading your work or using your website if you have not taken into account their accessibility needs. visualization styleaccessibility , diversity and inclusionanother issue to keep in mind in data visualization is how you refer to different groups. you may have considered this when using terms like black, african american, or hispanic in your writing, tables, or graphs. use the phrasing accepted and recognized by your audience and the communities you are studying. consider the lived experiences of the people and groups you study and write about. also consider using people-first language, such as people with disabilities instead of disabled people. it is important to remember that data are reflection of the lives of real people. visualization styleaccessibility , diversity and inclusionthis also applies to the layout of your graphs and the language you use. how do you order the bars or lines in your tables and graphs? is it alphabetical, based on sample size, or is it based on some unknown, arbitrary decision? again, there are not many answers to thesequestions, but it is worth taking some time to consider approaches and strategies to make your work more accessible and inclusive of different groups. exerciseexposing header in one-column text tablewhen there is only one measure is included in the view, the row label is not shown in the table. exerciseexposing header in one-column text tableto get header in the table1.double-click any other field included on the measures shelf (except for the geocoding measures used for mapping) .point at the column heading of the second measure .right-click to hide the measure exerciseusing continuous quick filters for ranges of valuesyou can restrict the range of values and then drag them from within the range to scroll. to scroll, point at the gray area in the filter bar and , while pressing your left mouse button, drag the range to the left or right to move through the entire set. exerciseusing continuous quick filters for ranges of values exercisecreate your own custom date hierarchyby creating custom dates, you can combine them into hierarchies that meet your specific needs. exercisecreate your own custom date hierarchyto create custom date hierarchies, .point at date field in the dimension shelf and right-click2.select the create custom date option3.edit the date as you require4.drag one date field on top of another to create the custom hierarchy5.use the custom hierarchy in your view exercisecustomizing shape exercisecustomizing shape part three exercise and project design time for exercise!
sm2715 creative coding unit image processing manfred lau wave effect pixels are displaced along the axis by using sine wave formsource image =; // phase float da=pi/; // phase increment: / = degrees float amp=; // amplitude for the sin wave int loc = + *; int newloc = + int( +sin ()*amp)*; newloc =constrain(newloc,, * -); destination.pixels [newloc ]=source.pixels [loc]; =+da ; source.pixels[loc] destination.pixels[newloc] example wave effect copy() -copy( sx, sy, sw, sh, dx, dy, dw, dh) copies region of pixels from the display window to another area of the display window -copy( src, sx, sy, sw, sh, dx, dy, dw, dh) copies region of pixels from an image into the display window -if the source and destination regions arenot the same size, it will automatically resize the source pixels to fit the specified target region. example pimage img; void setup() { size(, ); background(); img = loadimage("station.png"); image(img, , ); } void draw() { int x1 = (int) random(, width); int y1 = ; int x2 = round(x1 + random( -, )); int y2 = round(random( -, )); int = (int) random(, ); int = height; copy(x1, y1, , , x2, y2, , ); } void keyreleased() { background(); image(img, , ); } exercise (not marked, and no need to submit this) -base on the given template, use copy() or get() to create magnifier that will zoom region selected by the mouse suggested solution to exercise (mousex , mousey ) magsizemagsize(mousex -magsize/, mousey -magsize/)copy(mousex -magsize/, mousey -magsize/, magsize, magsize, , height -magsize*magscale, magsize*magscale, magsize*magscale); //pick up the subimage at the mouse location pimage zoom = get(mousex -magsize/, mousey -magsize/, magsize, magsize); //show the subimage at the left -bottom corner of the display window image(zoom, , height -magsize*magscale, magsize*magscale, magsize*magscale); or exercise (not marked, and no need to submit this) -base on the given template, create sketch that manipulate the source image in pixel levels: -display only one channel of color in each region (left, middle, or right part) -apply random displacement to each pixel example moving image with oop class: eye can you create this? source code: unit0 4_example_04_oop_color
sm2715 creative coding unit video processing manfred lau processing 'svideo library installing the video library processing svideo library import processing.video .*; two classes: movie (file) and capture (webcam) movie class loading and playing movies located in the sketch ' data folder (or an accessible place on the network ) example // street of crocodiles () by brothers quay import processing.video.*; movie movie; void setup() { size(, ); background(); movie = new movie(this, "street of crocodiles excerpt .mp4"); //movie.play(); // plays one time movie.loop(); // plays continuously } // called every time new frame is available to read void movieevent(movie ) { .read(); // reads the current frame } void draw() { // alternative to movieevent() //if (movie.available() == true) { // movie.read(); //} image(movie, , ); } methods of the movie class example adding time bar exercise (not for submission) -create sketch that jumps to random location (frame) within movie whenever the mouse button is clicked example // street of crocodiles () by brothers quay import processing.video.*; movie movie1, movie2, movie3; void setup() { size(, ); movie1 = new movie(this, "street of crocodiles excerpt .mp4"); movie2 = new movie(this, "street of crocodiles excerpt .mp4"); movie3 = new movie(this, "street of crocodiles excerpt .mp4"); movie1.loop(); movie2.loop(); movie3.loop(); } void movieevent(movie ) { .read(); } void draw() { // display three channels at different positions image(movie1, , ); image(movie2, , ); image(movie3, , ); } movie.speed () method the movie.speed () method allows to change the playback speed, for example: //plays at half the speed (slow motion) mymovie.speed (.); //plays the movie twice as fast (fast forward) mymovie.speed (); use negative values for backwards playback, for example: //reverse in normal speed mymovie.speed (-); not all video formats support backwards playback. the theora codec (. mkv ) does support backward playback, but not so for the h264 codec (.mp4). example side by side video example additive blending exercise (not for submission) -based on example , add one key frame using the mouse left -click while the video is playing -display and overlap the whole stack of key frames -right -click to clear all key frames example pas de deux (play consecutive frames) example capture class example simple capture import processing.video.*; capture cam; void setup() { size(, ); cam = new capture(this, width, height); cam.start(); } void draw() { if (cam.available()) { cam.read(); } //image(cam, , ); set(, , cam); // faster } // this allows processing the image data separately from draw() //void captureevent(capture ) { // .read(); //} exercise (not for submission) -based on unit0 3_example_08 filters, try to apply the filter to live video captured by the camera (webcam) official examples for capture class look at: () libraries > video > movie > frames (ii) libraries > video > capture > mirror2
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow and building your visualizationdr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow iv building your visualization 02third exam 01design workflow iv part one design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe second stage: giving all the things we could show, what will we show? design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe design phase will focus on five layers of visualization design: data representation, interactivity, annotation,color and composition.contents:charts, interactivity, annotationappearance: color, composition compositionexample1 why are so many babies born around : ..? -scientific american blog network compositionexample2 compositionexample3 compositionexample4 compositionexample5 compositionexample6 compositionthe role of compositionafter color, composition is the final layer of design that brings all your prior thinking together. this does not make it the least important, quite the opposite, rather it seems to make sense to concern yourself with decisions about what contents will need to be included(charts, interactive features, annotations) and then decide about the appearanceof those contents, through their color and composition implications. in reality, as you are thinking about any layer of design, you are likely to be conceiving in your mind or on paper how your ideas will start to shape up in terms of their layout. there are two perspectives for composition decisions: project composition and chart composition. compositionproject compositionproject composition is about defining the overall layout and hierarchy of the visualization project, whether within single page, across web page or over multiple pagers, including the following features:visual hierarchy layout: how to arrange the positionof elements?visual hierarchy size: how to manage the hierarchyof element sizes?absolute positioning: where specifically should certain elements be placed? compositionproject compositionlayout new project: 'boom and bust' -the shape of roller-coaster season -visualisingdata compositionproject compositionlayout is the electoral college fair? -washington post compositionproject compositionsize--creating variation in size can also create hierarchy. when one chart is larger than another it will imply amplified importance. if you mean to portray this relative importance, great, if you dont mean this to be implied then you need to ensure items are of equal and consistent size. one method that employs equal sizing is that of small multiples, where you have small-sized, multiple charts presented in one view to enable comparisons between different categories or points in time, typically. if you are looking to facilitate comparisons, asking readers to rely on memory by comparing things over sequences of pages or via interactive selections will compromise the abilityto reasonably make those comparisons. even at small resolution, key patterns, trends, size variations and colors can still be seen and understood. compositionproject compositionsizing the endorsement primary | fivethirtyeight compositionproject compositionsizing stronger together and am your voice how the nominees convention speeches compare -the new york times (nytimes.com) compositionproject compositionthe city of anarchy infographic demonstrates clear visual hierarchy across its design. there is primary focal point of the main subject cutaway illustration in the center with small thumbnail image above it for orientation. at the bottom there are small supplementary illustrations to provide further information. it is clear through their relative placement at the bottom of the page and their more diminutive stature that they are of somewhat incidental importance compared with the main detail in the center. compositionproject compositioncity of anarchy kowloon walled city city of anarchy | visual.ly compositionproject compositionpositioningare you going for top to bottom or right to left sequence? alternatively, will the narrative start in the middle and work outwards? what will be on page , page through to page and why? these are all quite simple decisions that you need to make about the relative positioning of your content, but decisions that carry lot of significance on how the content will be perceived by the reader. overall, you are asking yourself what items of content need to be visible first because they are the most important and which can be last? which elements need to be next to each otheras they are concerned with the same 'thing', which ones can be separate? compositionchart compositionchart composition is about the positioning and sizing decisions concerning the construction of your charts.positioningwhere will you position the range of chart-related annotations, such as captions, legends and chart apparatus, in way that optimizes the assistancethey are intended to provide? for example, if you locate color legend far away from the chart and the colors it relates to, the accessibility will be undermined causing the eye and brain to undertake long distance lookup. if you have the chart reading guides that help explain unusual or possibly unfamiliar representation approaches, it seems sensible to offer these somewhere before or above the charts in question, so the instructions are consumed before the chart perceiving is undertaken. for chart apparatus, items like chart titles and value labels, there isnt right or wrong approach, just squeezing out as much logic as possible from your placement choices. compositionchart compositionpositioning why are so many babies born around : ..? -scientific american blog network compositionchart compositionpositioning the little of visualisationdesign: part -visualisingdata compositionchart compositionpositioning mizzous racial gap is typical on college campuses | fivethirtyeight compositionchart compositionchart sizingaxis scales are an important composition decision, very much linked with your thoughts about editorial framing and the examination of your data. sometimes you can be quite creative in setting minimum and maximum ranges to help bring out compelling narrative. of course, dont forget that some charts have rules that need to be observed such as the bar chart always starting at the zero origins on the quantitative axis. you can also optimize the readability of your display through astute sorting. sorting chart alphabeticallycan remove biases -intentional or unintentional -that you may wish to avoid for political reasons and can enable quicker lookup of categorical values through the sorting of their labels. sorting chart based on hierarchy can emphasize the relative quantitative rankings between categories, which may be more important. the decision on how to sort chart will vary depending on the project but should be considered carefully. compositionchart compositionchart sizing maps: tracking harveys destructive path through texas and louisiana -the new york times (nytimes.com) compositionchart compositionchart sorting: consider the most meaningful sorting arrangement for your data and editorial focus. london olympians visualisedfor the guardian | olympic games | the guardian compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?when it comes to making decisions about composition, there are several main factors that influence your choices, informed by the work weve undertaken in the three preparatory stages of the design workflow (formulating your brief, working with data and establishing your editorial thinking). ensuring you observe the three principles of good visualization design (trustworthiness, accessible and elegant) is also supplementary influence. compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?formulating our brief (context)what is the output format and size? are these dimensions fixed (eg.print) or flexible (eg.web)? are you producing one output or several, possibly for different platforms, in which case do you have to find different composition solutions for each?twitter?an art article?print output? compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?formulating our brief (context) compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?formulating our brief (vision)what is your subject matter about and are their ways to engage your audience through creativebut relevantlayout choices that provide some cohesive metaphor with the nature and topic of the data? why are so many babies born around : ..? -scientific american blog network compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?formulating our brief (vision) graphics info (graphics-info.blogspot.com) compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?working with data (examination)the shape and size of the data will strongly influence the architecture of your composition thinking. the examination step of the working with data stage will have revealed the range of values, the number of distinct categories and the existence of outliers. all these properties will influence the sizing judgments across the project overall and within/around your chart construction choices. for example, in the graphic below, the overall composition was shaped by there being football matches to analyze. this influenced the grid structure based on columns and rows. compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?working with data (examination)the shape and size of the data will strongly influence the architecture of your composition thinking. compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?working with data (examination) compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?establishing our editorial thinkinghow many different angles (charts) might you need to include? is there any specific focusfor these angles that might influence sequence or hierarchy between them?in defining your editorial perspectives, you will have likely established some sense of hierarchy that might inform which angles should be more prominent(regarding layout position and size) and which less so. there might also be some inherent narrative binding each slice of analysis that lends itself to being presented in deliberate sequence. compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?data representationdifferent chart types have different spatial consequences. their shapes will vary -from cartesian(/), radial, rectangular and tabular layouts -and their respective sizes - waffle chart will likely be smaller in the space it occupies compared to treemap. compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?data representationthe table summarizes the main chart structures and the typical shapes they occupy. compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?data representation compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?data representation compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?design principles trustworthy design: the integrity and meaning of your chart scale, chart dimension, and (for mapping) your projection choices are paramount.accessible design: remember the good design is unobtrusive if you want to facilitate comparisons between different chart displays these ideally need to be presented within simultaneous view.elegant design: creating sense of unity and consistency across your composition will create sense of harmony between the elements. the positioning and sizing judgments of every element need to be completed with precision and with the utmost care for detail as the inconsistencies and shortcomings will be conspicuous and immediately interrupt the elegance of your work. if you are sloppy with your composition choices, this might also undermine the trust an audience has with the hidden work you have conducted with your data, for example. compositioncomposition: what influences our choices?design principles (elegant) no consistency! composition reviewthis workflow offers creative and analytical process that will guide you from an initial trigger that instigates the need for visualization through to developing your final solution. review review review review 02building your visualization part two comparing categoriestimedistributionbuilding your visualization geospatialpart-to-wholequalitativerelationship distributiondata distribution and deviation analysiswe may infer some conclusions by examining how our data is distributed or deviated from reference value. distributionhistogramthe most basic graph type for visualizing distribution. bar chart presenting the tabulated frequency of data over distinct intervals, called bins, that sum to the total distribution. distributionhistogramit can show where values are concentrated within distribution, where extreme values are, and whether there are any gaps or unusual values.we can layer histograms together to show how different distributions compare. distributionhistogrambins that are too wide may hide patterns in the distribution, while bins that are too narrow may obscure the overall shape of the distribution. distributionhistogrampareto chart can be regarded as modification to the basic histogram. distributionpyramid chartit puts two groups on either side of center vertical axis. subcategory of the diverging bar chart.often used to show changes in population-based metrics such as birth rates, mortality rates, age, or overall population levels. distributionpyramid chartif you want to compare the shares of the two genders distributionscientists and engineering analyze distributions routinely, because distributions have important stories to tell.measures of central tendencya class of statistical measures that summarizes information about the distribution of data for one variable into single numbermeasures of central tendency refers to central value or typical value for probability distribution (.., center of the frequency) distributiona class usually has - students. how do we know the whole classs performance? distributionmeasures of central tendencymodea measure of central tendency for one variable that indicates the most frequent or common scoremediana measure of central tendency for one variable that indicates the point or score at which half of the cases are higher and half are lower (.., middle point)meana measure of central tendency for one variable that indicates the arithmetic average, that is, the sum of all scores divided by the total numbers of them distributionmeasures of central tendencystandard deviation (sd) measure of the amount of variation or dispersion of set of values. low sd indicates that the values tend to be close to the mean of the set. distributionmeasures of central tendency. distributionmeasures of central tendencyhow to report the performance of the class?class : students: , , , , , , , , , 67class : students: , , , , , , , , , distributionmeasures of central tendencyhow to report the performance of the class?class :mean: ; sd: .9class :mean: ; sd: .2the variance of students performance is much larger in class than class . distributionmeasures of central tendencysystematical: the peak is near the center, the distributions shape is systematicalnormal distribution ( bell-shaped curve)skewed to the left: distributions are skewed when the peak is nearer to the right than the midway point.skewed to the right: distributions are skewed when the peak is nearer to the left than the midway point. products sales throughout its life distributionmeasures of central tendency deviation analysisdeviation analysisexamining how one or more sets of values deviate from reference set of value such as budget, an average, or prior point in timeexample: comparing actual expenses to the expense budget, focusing on how and to what extent they differ deviation analysisdeviation analysisto focus on the differences using this graph, we must perform arithmetic in our heads to subtract actual expenses from the budget. this can be avoided by displaying the differences between actual and the budget directly. deviation analysisdeviation analysisfocusing on simple deviations might seem mundane compared to some other types of analysis, such as correlations and distributions, but it is the bread and better of other quantitative data analyses. part three start your visualization exercisepyramid chartcombine diverging chart and the use of binsmake pyramid chart to show the popularity change of two names james and michael. exercisepyramid chartstep : create bin for year exercisepyramid chartstep : create two new calculated fields exercisepyramid chartstep : create diverging bar chart using the bin exercisesunburst charta sunburst chart can be regarded as combination of two pie charts. exercisesunburst chartstep : make pie chart and duplicate itdouble-click in the columns to create new calculation exercisesunburst chartstep : change the second one using sub-category1)drag the measure of subcategory into detail for the second layer2)then change it to color (do not drag it into color) exercisesunburst chartstep : change the second one using sub-category1)drag the measure of subcategory into detail for the second layer2)then change it to color (do not drag it into color) exercisesunburst chartstep : dual axis, change the layer order and change the sizeremember to remove gift amount from size exercisesunburst chartstep : change the color and sort categories exercisesunburst chartstep : add labels exercisesunburst chartanother wayto make use of the maps to create sunburst chartstep : create new calculated field to indicate the co-ordinate (or position of your chart in map) and double-click to make it appear in the map; change the mark into pie; use ctrl+shift+bto make your pie as big as proper exercisesunburst chartanother wayto make use of the maps to create sunburst chartstep : create pie chart for the sub-categorydrag gift amount to angle; drag two category measures to details and then change them to color exercisesunburst chartanother wayto make use of the maps to create sunburst chartstep : create pie chart for the categorydrag center to the view to add new layer; repeat step exercisesunburst chartanother wayto make use of the maps to create sunburst chartstep : create pie chart for the white center; turn off the background map exercisesunburst chartanother wayto make use of the maps to create sunburst chartstep : change color and add labels 04third exam part four time for exercise!
lecture 2the eye / part introduction: some little experiments you have blind spot! theories of vision emission (or extromission) vision theoryplato ( . ): filaments from the eye, touching objects with its rays (like raytracing!) fire from the eye! ( century bc, empedocles) ... but how you see during night time?? al hazen (-xii century) : accurate intromissivetheory of vision (light bounces from objects and then into the eyes to create images)intromission theory: the eye receivesrays instead. you need an external source rene descartesproposed that light rays emanating from objects imprinted themselves on the eye and then were transmitted through the optic nerve to pineal gland where the images were interpreted and translated into commands and actions. isaac newton would advocate that light was transmitted via particles or corpuscles which entered the eye and were translated into images.(... like ancient greeks! )newton also produced theory of refraction and the color spectrum in white light (later) the cartesian theatrean homunculus inside the brain which re-interprets the images projected onto the eye. active eye theory is wrong & obsoleteseeing is not passive processnice!! you can learn/unlearn to see!(think picasso..)but the mystery of vision remains: who sees things in the retina? seeing is process of feature abstraction and classificationfrom the lgn and the thalamus, electrical energy passes to the occipital lobe which is divided into layers which processes theinformation with increasing levels of complexity. the primary visual cortex (v1) is responsible for low level, simple imagery, edge detection, light and dark and is the most understood. phosphenes and simple hallucinations occur at this level. this information is passed onto the higher layers like v4 and v6 whichrecognizes objects, shapes and faces. (recall the three stages of hallucination in trance, from simple to complex) information also follows dorsal stream(upper) tolocatewhere something is; and the ventral stram(lower) which tells what itis. these process are mostly independent convolutional neural network... that means that one can generatethingsthatresemble features, and your mind will try to see things, .. hallucinate (cf. exercise )brain vision neural pathways first, some physical principles (that you can tweak too)) geometrical optics and camera obscura note: evolution of the eye... dont be too impressed by the masters: little secret unveiled... camera lucida: an indispensable too, popular in the days before photography was invented. very skilled group of painters were the notorious flemish masters, group of artists from the netherlands, who had mastered depth, form and shadowing to reproduce living scenes as accurately as possible. they were also known for leaving small hidden signatures and etchings hidden in their masterpieces for the discerning eye to notice. their contributions to culture and humanity still leave mankind fascinated, curious and blown away, in fact many artists today still try to recreate techniques and rules of renaissance painting in their modern works. but what technology did they actually use? modern version by golan levin & al.(neolucida) tims vermeer: this guy never studied painting... the music lesson( ), johannes vermeer : why the night is black & white???try: do you see colors in peripheral view? ) aword on color perception (really, only word...) ) aword on binocular vision stereoblindness: inability to perceive stereoscopic depth by combiningimages from the two eyes. by the way, rembrandtwas probably stereoblind!but there are other phenomena that can provide the perception of depth from images & motion (...and what about depth perception in blind people?) random dot stereogram make your own: yousee it?...how good at you at ping pong with one eye closed? cataracts (blur, contrast) waterlily pond, painted in when monet was .the japanese bridge at giverny, painted by monet around 1918can less be more in art? why? capturing the essence, not the details (impressionism? how far can we go?) ) ...and word on physicalglitches: entopic phenomena lens flare starburst floaters ... how many ufos or legends come from these glitches? (and youll see, many more along the way to meaning!) upper paleolithic cosorock art, california upper paleolithic indian rock art, india bronze age rock art, lantau island, hong kongbronze age rock art, po toi island, hong kongearly art and entopic phenomena? (think about it: it hadto be message from the gods!) archeologist david james williams has argued that these images were based on phosphenes induced through altered states of consciousnessby shamans in the upper paleolithic, (roughly , years before pythagoras) possibly from sensory deprivation in the dark caves where they were found. williams postulates that these recordings of autonomous light phenomena in the eye are the origins of art. but this is nothing compared with the high level patterns (nature or nurture)! william wees has argued that the avantgardecinema of the 1950s and 60s as practiced by artists like stan brakhage, kenneth anger and len lye could be situated within shamanistic art tradition of representing primitive geometric imagery. ) are pixels the building blocks of mental images or do we have set of lego blocks to assemble pictures? simple geometric primitivesmore complex patters including full hallucinations (faces, people...)) what triggers the perception of these elements?can you control this process? ) what guides the way we put them together to form complete picture? again, can we control this process?can we unseethose patterns?can we see what we wantto see instead? these simple scientific/artistic observationsraise very interesting questions: seeing light without light actually entering the eye. phosphene as minimal illusionphosphene can be induced by pressure to the eyeballs, through sensory deprivation in darkened environments, meditation, concussion, rushes of blood to the head when standing up, psychedelic drugs, migraine, electrical or magnetic stimulation on the visual cortexphosphenes ) from retinal pixels to brain pixels (features) or even... exposure to ionizing radiation! transcranial magnetic stimulation (tms) inhibiting the recognizing reflex to see anew cortical electrical stimulation (invasive, but more precise) re-learningto see orhearis possible, even without eyes or ears!sound? tactilestimuli? (we will come back to this) migraine auras: from simple to more complex imagery can you find art inspired by this phenomena? ) how/who puts the phosphenes together and make sense of the image? .gestalt theory (predates modern neuroscience).neurosciences, cognitive sciences3.evolutionary psychology4.and of course artistic exploration: .. lets forget for moment the ghost in the machine apparent paradox (later). lets just observe ourselves observing: that is, deconstructing and playing with our way of seeing: from action painting (noise), to pointillism, cubism, surrealism... but also symbolism. in fact, all the way to realism! ) gestaltthe concept of the gestalt principles was devised by group of german psychologists at the beginning of the 20th century and suggests that humans are programmed to find patterns. ?? phi-phenomenon six principles of gestalt .figure/groundpeople instinctively distinguish between foreground and background2. similaritypeople perceive things which are similar as belonging to group3. proximitythings which are close together are perceived to be grouped together . common regionwhen things are placed together is closed shape they are perceived to be in group5. continuityobjects on line or on curve are perceived to belong together6. closurewe tend to look for patterns in complex forms in order to complete them read this paper: form constants are pervasive theme in modern and contemporary art... tobias rehberger central axiom of the theory is that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. in other words, there is hierarchy in seeing. what we see are relations between different features (from the most basic pixel to the most complex, going through arrangements that cannot be described with language)this explains lots of optical illusions:there may be several ways to put the elements togetherthere may be an apparent contradiction between what the elements as whole suggest, and each part of the image taken separatelythere is competition of hypothesis in the brain. all this happens extremely fast. the hypothesis that wins correspondstowhatyouendsupseeing. it is the most probable given the context, meaning one can prime your visual system to see what one wants (cf. exercise) example: hallucinating 3d from 2d (impossible geometry) penrose triangle(aka penrose tribaror the impossible tribar) the unsettling nature of impossible objects occurs because of our natural desire to interpret 2d drawings as three-dimensional objects. this is why drawing of anecker cubewould be most likely seen as acube, rather than "two squares connected with diagonal lines, square surrounded by irregular planar figures, or any other planar figure". with an impossible object, looking at different parts of the object makes one reassess the 3d nature of the object, which confuses the mind ( highly recommend this youtubechannel!! exercise :tips:try in front of light source (sun, lamp)try in the dark (eyes closed or open). wait long enough. do you reallysee darkness?try after doing exercise or when tiredtry upon waking up, or before falling asleep: do you notice changes in the complexity of the visuals? (hypnopompic/hypnagogic hallucinations)interesting things to check:closed-eye hallucinationentopic phenomenon form constantganzfeld effect(sensory deprivation)ganzfeld & parapsychologydream machinedreams of blind people? .close your eyes, observe and attempt to draw what you see in the notebook..make annotations & write down ideas for further exploration.can you really see nothing? .stare at visual noise from the surface of an object or picture, or created by yourself (by drawing random lines, spilling liquid, throwing dirt on page / using or programming software).pick subject in your mind (faces, birds, battles..).try to see it in the noise (eyes half-closed helps) and draw it interesting things to check:pareidolia / apopheniaglitchinartwernicke aphasiadeep dreamgenerative adversarial networkslargelanguagemodels(gpt)the idea is that the noise parameters are simplified description of the thing you want to see. you can even express these parameters with language (ex: head is roundish..). primed by it, your visual cortex easily hallucinate the rest.it is much more difficult to reverse the process of recognition, .., from an eye trained to recognize something, generate an instance of it.the same applies to machine learning recognizers: it is difficult to understand the meaning of the weights and express them in language or drawing. in order to generate instances, different interesting composite model is used: random generator and recognizer. this is called adversarial neural networks alberto giacometti, men' heads, 1959note: you can generate the noise as you draw, and somehow control the intensity or shape of the noise (random lines) to prime some specific thing you want to see. leonardo da vinci, the battle of anghiari()if you look at any walls spotted with various stains or with mixture of different kinds of stones, if you are about to invent some scene you will be able to see in it resemblance to various different landscapes adorned with mountains, rivers, rocks, trees, plains, wide valleys, and various groups of hills. you will also be able to see diverscombats and figures in quick movement, and strange expressions of faces, and outlandish costumes, and an infinite number of things which you can then reduce into separate and well conceived forms.exercise :using noise as source of inspiration exercise [for those who like coding]programming in processing (comment, add link in the notebook, or print results):.an interactive, controlled noise generator (that can be used to tune your hallucinated drawing). .optical illusions and op-art note: processing is an offspring of an older project called design by numbers by the fameousartist/scientist jhon maedamaeda encourages readers to discover mathematical relationships and the use of numbers as new media for the creation of new artwork. maedas ideas combine scientific disciplines with design, and have inspired new wave digital designers such as casey reas at the same time, one can say that all this is inspired by the turtle bot and the logo programming language. they work by using primitives for drawing. right into the gestalt program... lecture 2the eye / part how many art movements can be understood as experiments concentrating on separate aspects of the process of vision? (low, high level) suprematismis an early twentieth-century art movement focused on the fundamentals of geometry, painted in limited range of colors. the term suprematism refers to an abstract art based upon "the supremacy of pure artistic feeling" rather than on visual depiction of objects of coursethe proponents describe the program without the language of neurosciences, cognitive sciences or computer visionkazimir malevich' "suprematism," - de stijldutch for "the style", also known as neoplasticism, was dutch art movement founded in in leiden. de stijl consisted of artists and architects. in narrower sense, the term de stijl is used to refer to body of work from to founded in the netherlands. proponents of de stijl advocated pure abstraction and universality by reduction to the essentials of form and colour; they simplified visual compositions to vertical and horizontal, using only black, white and primary colors. constructivistartfocused on industrial production. constructivists used stripped down, geometric forms and modest materials. their visual language existed of forms that they could draw with practical instruments like compasses and rulers minimalismdescribes movements in various forms of art and design, especiallyvisual artandmusic, where the work is set out to expose the essence, essentials or identity of subject through eliminating all non-essential forms, features or concepts. as specific movement in the artsit is identified with developments in postworld war ii western art, most strongly with american visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s.robert morris, untitled() jasper johnsabstract expressionism,neo-dada,pop art migraineaura fortifications? constant forms? wassily kandinskypioneer ofabstractioninwestern art joaqun torres garca, el pez, franois morellet formula sol lewitt une lospuntos (), horacio cassinelli( used processingto create the numbered points, if you are interesting in developing from there, tell me) rembrandt, the nightwatch () to the posterior parietal: spatial disorders:simultanagnosia: where the patient can only describe single objects without the ability to perceive it as component of set of details or objects in context (as in scenario, .. the forest for the trees).optic ataxia: where the patient can' use visuospatial information to guide arm movements.hemispatial neglect: where the patient is unaware of the contralesionalhalf of space (that is, they are unaware of things in their left field of view and focus only on objects in the right field of view; or appear unaware of things in one field of view when they perceive them in the other). for example, person with this disorder may draw clock, and then label all twelve of the numbers on one side of the face and consider the drawing complete.akinetopsia: inability to perceive motion.apraxia: inability to produce discretionary or volitional movement in the absence of muscular disorders.damage to the ventral stream:recognize faces(prosopagnosia) or interpret facial expression.) gestalt & neuroscience from all these observation we can intuit something (that turns out to be true):seeing needs to be learned! critical period (happens with humans)typical example: strabismus & stereopsis inverted goggles experiment experiential blindnessfor you: learn to see more, or choose to see less by the way, you can quickly reprogram your vision sensorial substitution (you can learn to see... without eyes) unconscious inference kanizsa'striangle so, in way seeing is mostlyhallucinating (without drugs) these books are highly recommendedthey are eyes opening ;) alice in wonderland syndrome (aiws) (todd' syndromeordysmetropsia)natural distortion ofperceptionspatialdistortions in visual perception of objects such as appearing smaller (micropsia) or larger (macropsia), orappearing to be closer (pelopsia) or farther (teleopsia) away than they actually are. distortion may also occur for senses other than vision.charles bonnet syndromeorcbspsychophysical visual disturbance and the experience of complexvisualhallucinationsin person with partial or severeblindness. obviously, many artists took note! writers, painters... musicians (*) . burroughs and david woodard with briongysin dreamachine() dreamachineis "viewed" with the eyes closed: the pulsating light stimulates theoptic nerveand thus alters the brain' electrical oscillations. ps: hardware hackers: easy to do! which gestalt principle is used in this image?.figure/ground2.similarity3.proximity4.common region5.continuity6.closure negative space ... another eye-opening book which gestalt principle is used in this image?)figure/grounda)similaritya)proximitya)common regiona)continuitya)closure motion & color we see patterns everywhere: we crave for meaning! ... and so do computers! try it!deep dream: & rml: conclusion: you are likely to see what you wantto see! exercise: start from noise (created by yourself, or from picture), choose subject (faces, birds, battles..), and try to see it (eyes half closed helps) and draw it playing with phenomena of vision: low, high levelperspective, motion, contrast, persistence of visiongestalt...op-art & optical illusions... if vision was perfect, we could not have cinema, nor displays!! which gestalt principle is used in this image?)figure/grounda)similaritya)proximitya)common regiona)continuitya)closure which gestalt principle is used in this image?)figure/grounda)similaritya)proximitya)common regiona)continuitya)closure which gestalt principle is used in this image?)figure/grounda)similaritya)proximitya)common regiona)continuitya)closure which gestalt principle is used in this image?.figure/groundb.similarityc.proximityd.common regione.continuityf.closure which gestalt principle is used in this image?)figure/grounda)similaritya)proximitya)common regiona)continuitya)closure which gestalt principle is used in this image?)figure/grounda)similaritya)proximitya)common regiona)continuitya)closure victor vasarelly: supernovae()vasarely, victor:sign sculpture, 1977low level illusions bridget riley peter kogler, pareidolia has been very much exploited in art too notebook exercisesremember: the goal is to have nice notebook, plenty of things that interest you. you can do one of these exercises, all of them, or something else as long asyou practice seeing anew.observations, notes (from everyday life, from the lecture), experiments, drawings, ideas, etc. but fill it with love. every page. exercise :.draw portrait of friends face while she/he is lying down (face upside down). do the same but in an upright positionandcompare2. take portrait, print it in large (or use screen), cut small window or zoom until you dont recognize the part. draw it and move along, until the final picture is done. short circuiting the face recognition brain circuitry, to reallydraw what you see you will be surprised as how different it feels duringdrawing, and how different is the result (this activates your left brain and bypass the high-level gestalt illusion that puts together face). this is learning to unsee, to see the naked reality, to see anewinteresting things to check:drawingaiddevicesneolucidaleft-braindrawingtechniquesinvertedgogglesexperimenthemianopsiaglaucoma, tunnel vision exercise : create your own-logo based on gestalt principles (describe which you used) exercise : . invent your own impossiblegeometrical figures. even if you cannot find some original shape, document your investigation and drawings2. draw ambiguousfigures ... combine the exercises: impossible logo!impossible figures
diy sensors analogue/organic introduction: conventional touch surfacea touch surface is an input device that allows users to operate device by simply touching the display screen.the display screen has sensitive glass overlay placed on it and we can give the desired input by touching on it.the term generally refers to touch or contact to the display of the device by finger or hand. almost everywhere in our life capacitive sensing technology to understand how capacativesensors work, first you have to understand how capacitor works. capacitor consists of electrical conductive surfaces (also called electrodes), one is connected to the positive pole of the electrical circuit and the other is grounded. between these surfaces there is non-conductive layer which is called dielectric. the capacitor can be compared to small battery. when sending pulse to the capacitor, it quickly charges. when the signal goes to zero, the capacitor discharges. this creates delay in the pulse due to the time it takes to charge and discharge the capacitor. how it works capacitive sensing technology in our lifea capacitive touch screen panel is one which consists of an insulator such as glass, coated with transparent conductor such as indium tin oxide (ito).as the human body is also conductor, touching the surface of the screen results in distortion of the screen' electrostatic field, measurable as change in capacitance. what if we want everything to be touch-sensitive? diy our own cap-sensor democonductive wirewaterice will work too. anything else we can make touch-sensitive?basically anything thats conductivequick task:please write down something that could be touch-sensitive in our every day life.submit the paper with your name and student number. what can we do with cap-based touch sensor? in-class practiceplease use arduino to create touch-sensitive circuit.notcountedintograde
tradition, modern and newzenweek 7architecture tadao andoterunobu fujimorihiroshi haraarata isozakikengo kumakiyonori kikutake kisho kurokawayoshio taniguchicontemporary japanese architects umeda sky building in osaka ()sapporo dome ()hiroshi haras yuki-an (~) tea room is best seen as medium for paying homage to the master(hara, ).isozaki, ando & fujimori, the only tea room, built for the owner of very well known noddle restaurant yuki-sangunma, isozaki, ando & fujimori, 2007green serpentine stone how?tradition, modern and combinationthink time tadao andos duality(~) ando: believe architecture is the explorationby means of building of the tension between abstraction and representation. wanted to test the limits of the conflict between these two opposites so, as study, designed the tea houses in the mid-1980s. isozaki, ando & fujimori, tent tea houseoyodo, - isozaki, ando & fujimori, the tent functions as temporary roof and wall screenmore than decorative, ancillary functionnew structure devoid of building elements, and an essential empty spacefloor area and ceiling height are feet inches (.75m)features isozaki, ando & fujimori, created for one-day grand tea ceremony held in beachside in collaboration with filmmaker and flower arrangement master teshigaharasymbolizing the japanese aesthetic concepts such as about space, uniqueness, and ichigo ichie (the once-in--life-time occasion)floor area and ceiling height are feet inches (.75m)paper tea houseshizuoka, isozaki, ando & fujimori, how?tradition, modern and combinationthink time terunobu fujimori (~)architecture writ small: when work on tea room begin an exciting cycle of thinking about the fundamentals and principles of architecture, seeing how this or that concept works in practice, evaluating the results, and further building isozaki, ando & fujimori, chashitsu tetsu(yamanashi, ) isozaki, ando & fujimori, shin-ken (tokyo, ) isozaki, ando & fujimori, isozaki, ando & fujimori, kuan (kyoto, ) isozaki, ando & fujimori, ichiya-tei(kanagawa, ) isozaki, ando & fujimori, too high (nagano, ) isozaki, ando & fujimori, architect terunobu fujimori didnt receive his first commission until age , after having worked as an architectural historian for three decades. he has since been widely recognized for his use of raw, natural materials and his strikingly playful and eccentric designsincluding this too-high tea house in his fathers backyard in nagano, japan. built on two -feet-tall chestnut trees, the housewhich looks like it came straight out of miyazaki fairy talecan only be accessed by climbing ladder. inside, large window frames scenic vista of his hometown.see kim, 2017source: flying mud boat , isozaki, ando & fujimori, source: of the too high and flying mud boat tea rooms :-: how?tradition, modern and combinationthink time other contemporary tea rooms david matlkakim, kim, located in picturesque garden at the bottom of hill in prague. inspired by the japanese tradition, matlka envisioned world hidden inside, where time flows at its own pace, vacant space leaving an impression just by its spaciousness. matted circular platform opens out to the garden on one side. and its translucent domed roof represents the sky, while the hearth represents the home (kim, ). sun weikim, located on lake in the shiqiao garden in yangzhou, china. the bamboo tea room is divided into an asymmetrical maze of outdoor corridors and smaller courtyard spaces, which open into both interior and exterior views of the lake (kim, ). other architecturesas introduced bymichael freeman () soan () by toshihiko suzuki freeman, sankio () by shigeru uchida freeman, freeman, . newzen: the tea-ceremony room in modern japanese architecture. london: eight books ltd.isozaki, ., ando, ., & fujimori, . (). (eds.) the contemporary tea house: japans top architects redefine tradition. kyoto: kodansha.kim, . (). modern teahouses that are architectural wonders. on-line article of visual culture. retrieved from cited references fujimori, . (). introduction: the development of the tea room and its meaning in architecture. in . isozaki, . ando, and . fujimori (eds.) the contemporary tea house: japans top architects redefine tradition, pp. -. kyoto: kodansha.(see chapter ) fujimori, . (). the tea room: architecture writ small. in . isozaki, . ando, and . fujimori (eds.) the contemporary tea house: japans top architects redefine tradition, pp. -. kyoto: kodansha.(see chapter , pp. - only) nitschke, . williams . trans. (). japanese gardens. koln: taschen.(see pp. -)sen, . & sen . (). urasenke chado textbook. kyoto: tankosha.(see chapters and , pp. -)weekly readings (weeks -)
data from visualization to physicalization agendawhat is data physicalization?workshop/demo: how to deform 3d mesh with datahow to record datahow to deform mesh more concrete definition of informationvisualization card, mackinlay & shneiderman1999 datavisualizationscientificdata artisticexpression some demo of dataart does visualization alwaysmeanvirtual animation? interactive data visualizationwith tangibleuserinterface(tui)touch theinformation tangible informationvisualizationreefs on theedgelook to coral lifespan vs change in seatemperature using natural human motoricas way tocontrolinterface beyond the world of window, icon, menu andpointers (wimp)giving physical form to an underlyingdata informationtangible user interfaceconcept hiroshi ishii. . tangible bits: beyond pixels. in proceedings of the 2nd international conference on tangible and embedded interaction (tei ). association for computing machinery, new york, ny , usa, xvxxv. doi: news by hans haacke, datavisualization datavisualization tangible/physicaldatavisualization3d-printedsoundwave data physicalization we haveseenwhat is datavisualization what is dataphysicalization? giving physical form to an underlying data informationallowing users to touch theinformation bio-data physicalization: mental fabrication howtodesign/make/fabricatean(tangible)data visualization? standard user-center designprocessit also works in designing informationvisualization storing the data: arduino -> processing -> excel storing the data: plantspikebox-> excelyou need another open-source softwareaudacity: visualize the datascientific graphsvisual renderingin 3d?create 3d mesh of the plant data using our body data to animate 3d mesh
copyright reserved: all lecture notes and related materials are solely used for this course. please do not upload the materials to any unauthorized websites or distribute to other parties without my permission. ge1121 the japanese way of tea: history , arts, architecture and philosophy weeks tea and zen one thing shukoand joo(the two pioneers) rikyuand the warrior tea (movie watching rikyu) the establishment of wabi-cha the japanese tea ceremony as we know it today was first popularized by its use in buddhist monasteries during the 1500s. the serving of tea in refined circumstances was quickly taken on by warrior class samurais but although taking tea started out as high class habit, come the 16th century tea was being drunk all over japan. the way of the tea -the reverential name of the ritual -takes great influence from the principles of zen buddhism. every movement has to be performed correctly and is monitored by the guests present(see -in-japan) see teng() history zen buddhism was brought to china by the indian monk bodhidharma in the 6th century ce...zen spread to japan in the 12th century ce. zen -"nothing" zen is something person does. it' not concept that can be described in words . despite that, words on this site will help you get some idea of what zen is about. but remember, zen does not depend on words -it has to be experienced in order to 'understand' . source: ons/zen_1.shtml zen condenses no-thought and no -image into singular word no in keeping with its proclivity to favor the simple, as this contraction allows zen to expand the scope and the meaning of no -thought and no - image. through meditation this transcendence results in rejection of the belief that there is reality corresponding to name, or generally that there is reality corresponding to linguistic activity through the state of no- mind source: japanese -zen/#zennot spring comes with its flowers, autumn with the moon; summer with breezes, winter with snow; when nothing sticks in the mind; that is your best season. song dynasty zen monk wu-men huai-kai ( mumon ekai), from his book wu -men kuan (mumonkan ) case thebody is the bodhi-tree the soul is like mirror bright take heed to keep it always clean and let no dust settle on it shen-hsiu thebody is the bodhi -tree bodhi by nature is no tree , the soul is like mirror bright the mirror is inherently formless . take heed to keep it always clean there is originally nothing, and let no dust settle on it. on what, then, can the dust settle? hui-neng(en) from hui -neng'splatform stra('an-ching/danky, full title liu -tsuta-shih fa-pao-'an-ching rokusodaishi hhdanky ) (essays in zen buddhism first series , ) zen zen (chado)zen (temple) or through other types of practice, such as flower arrangement, calligraphy, poetry, design, martial arts, etc. ( teng, )through practice in my daily lifezen can be achieved at home or through chadoor other activities, not limited in temple song dynastic zen garden monastic code (-) great mirror of monastic codes ( - ) written by chinese zen priests kissaorai(letter on tea drinking, -) tea-making procedures (murai, ) its form was very much like the basic form of tea gathering that was established in the time of sen no rikyu. source: -inr0xztvo murai, practiced by the warrior class aristocracy at gatherings held on the estates of the ashikaga shoguns ( murai, ). ganroor round hearth ushi/archives/.html by the time of the 8thashikaga shogun ( -), the duties of doboshu included the acquisition, cataloguing, handling, storage, mounting, day -to-day selection, and display of chinese artworks ( murai, ). four and half tatami mats to three/two tatami mats dojisai tearoom, ginkakuji , kyoto - /archives/ --.html taianby rikyu, kyoto the jibutsudo (room where buddhist images and ancestors' mortuary tablets are enshrined) called togudoin the higashiyama dono(ginkaku-ji) run by ashikaga yoshimasa still exists there. one of the rooms in this building, is dojinsai , yojohan (four-and--half) mat room with an open hearth which is thought to be the origin of the tea room. yoshimasa used to drink tea in this room. it is said that shukowas invited here and heard about the wabi-cha (tea of quiet taste ). it was this kind of yojohan whose design was gradually abbreviated and its simplified form became shuko' yojohan. takeno jootook the simplification even further and changed it into yojohan with clay walls. so sen no rikyumade the revolutionary change to tea room that was exactly as the word soanimplied, tiny two mat space in which only wabi-cha could be done. this can be seen in the tai-an tea room at myoki- an rinzai sect temple in yamazaki in kyoto. hideyoshi was invited to this tea room and completely captivated, so that he built two mat tea room in osaka castle. in this way wabi-cha and soan-cha became central to chanoyu. -/list4--/ shoinstylea utensil stand called daisu, with upper and lower shelf soanstyle the host serves his guests in less formal and more personal way. the host and his guests sit facing one another across the fire pit (only tea container, cold water jar, brazier and kettle are used). for beginner hiroma stylethisstyle evolved during the edo period, the most regulated of the three types and most suited for very large gatherings of people (formal tea room). source: retrived feb revolutionary development in the culture of tea drinking as opposed to the enjoyment of tea at lively banquet with gorgeous karamono (tang made) chinese utensils displayed amuted beauty was sought, such as that shown in renga(linked poems), using unsophisticated domestically produced ceramics (murai, ). the three important persons the people who contributed most towards the formation of chanoyu were murata shuko(-), takeno joo(-) and sen no rikyu(-). shukoskokorono fumi (letter on mastery of the mind), which touched on the problem of the mind in chanoyu for the first time, could be called the beginning of wabi-cha. he leaned zen from zen master ikkyu who was credited as great teacher on zen. zen + tea = one taste (ichimi) source: list2-/list2--/ letter on mastery of the mind suggests that: chanoyuis spiritual path that brings about the development of human being. the line between japanese and chinese utensils should be dissolved. instead, shukowas concerned with how to harmonize japanese utensils with chinese utensils to create new kind of beauty. also shukoleft these words, ' moon which is not behind clouds is disagreeable ', meaning that moon that appears and disappears behind the clouds is more beautiful than brilliant full moon. this aesthetic of deficiency is central to the wabi-cha that shukocreated. source: -/list2--/ source: (from tang china) source: -art- museum.jp/planning/h21//obj07.htmlshukos favorite tea bowl (celadon/green) shuko' tea was further deepened by joo. joowas at the time an influential citizen of the extremely prosperous international mercantile city of sakai. when he was young he intended to become master of rengapoetry. he brought renga' aesthetic concepts of hie(chill) and kareru(withered ) into chanoyu. rikyuwas also citizen of sakai and learned chanoyu from joo. source: ist2/list2 -/list2--/ source: -/list2--/ by takeno jootakeno joo -. wealthy merchant of sakai. he further deepened the wabi-cha of shuko, based on the aesthetics of renga. as well as being the tea master of sen no rikyu, he was very influential in chanoyu circles in sakai at the time. -- long phase or - short phase source: english translation -- - poets-at-minase/ yuki nagarayama-moto kasumuyubekana as it snows the base of the mountain is misty this evening (sogi) yukumizutokuumeniousato far in the way the water goes plum -blossom-smelling hamlet (shohaku) kawakaze nihitomura yanagiharumiete the wind from the river sways weeping willows now its spring (socho) rikyu' aim was to remove as far as possible the element of play and to achieve chanoyu that was centred on spiritual exchange between people and had corresponding intensity. source: -/list2--/ when kuwayama sakonasked rikyuabout preparing tea garden, he quoted poem by jien(-), tendaisect monk of the kamakura period, many of whose poems appeared in the shinkokin collection of waka, using the poem to show the condition of the tea garden. 'the leaves of the oak have fallen without turning red, the loneliness of path deep in the mountains leading to temple '. from the atmosphere that this suggests we can get an idea of the image that rikyuhad of the tea garden. source: - /list3--/ ...rikiuwas watching his son shoanas he swept and watered the garden path. " not clean enough ," said rikiu, when shoan had finished his task, and bade him try again. after weary hour the son turned to rikiu: "father, there is nothing more to be done. the steps have been washed for the third time, the stone lanterns and the trees are well sprinkled with water, moss and lichens are shining with fresh verdure; not twig, not leaf have left on the ground ." "young fool," chided the tea -master, "that is not the way garden path should be swept." saying this, rikiustepped into the garden, shook tree and scattered over the garden gold and crimson leaves, scraps of the brocade of autumn! what rikiudemanded was not cleanliness alone, but the beautiful and the natural also . see okakura () murai, hideyoshis visit and flower arrangement by rikyu rikyu, known as tanaka soeki, along with other two merchants, was given special treatment by oda nobunaga. conquered kyoto in , taking chanoyu as political strategy to gain support from the rich ( murai, ). took chanoyu as seriously as politics became tea enthusiast and close associate of rikyu ordered rikyuto commit seppuku (ritual suicide by disembowelment) (murai, ). of the two main kinds of rakutea bowl, the black and the red, it was the black one that rikyuparticularly favored. hideyoshi did not like black tea bowls and had special liking for gold as symbol of his wealth golden culture became one of the special features of the azuchimomoyama period (also shown in the movie of rikyu). source: 1the-golden-tea-room-was-portable -to-practice -gorgeous -tea- ceremonies -anywhere/ the golden tea room wabi-style tea based on the ideal of wabi(quiet simplicity) and takes place in koma(smaller than four-and-- half mat tea room/yojohan) using simple utensils. pleasure -seeking element and sought to provide the opportunity for deeper spiritual communication through wabi-cha. source:http :// _win02.html black rakutea bowl owned by rikyu and made by chojiro no-theatre, the statue of rikyu the crucial differences of opinion and other reasons, hideyoshi ordered rikyuto commit ritual suicide (seppuku). rikycommitted seppuku at his residence within hideyoshi' jurakudai villa in kyoto at the age of seventy ( teng, ). the tea room and the death of rikyu source: ist2/list2 -/list2--/rikyu' chanoyu passed down through the three schools or sansenke via the third generation sen sotan: )omotesenke )urasenke and )mushakoujisenkesen sotanseven disciples . ()ujisato (masuhide ) gamo . ukon(hikogoro ) takayama (known as nambo) . sansai(tadaoki) hosokawa .()kenmotsu (munetsuna ) shibayama . kamon(masatada) seta .()hyobu(toshisada ) makimura .()oribe(shigenari ) furuta iemoto, the grand master the term refers to the head of the household in japan, there are number of family lines, like urasenke , which from generation to generation have been responsible for carrying forward certain forms of traditional culture (sen, . & sen, .,). gacy/lineage2.html ml - senke.or.jp/about/ arooms/index_tea.html .nanporoku , edited by tachibana jitsuzan .chanoyu ichieshu, by ii naosuke .the book of tea, by okakura kakuzo .cha no bigaku, by tanikawa tetsuzo (see genshitsu sen and soshitsu sen, ) edo period (-) southern record made up of chapters tachibana ( -), was high ranking retainer of the kuroda clan in kyushu, found the drafts in (exactly years after the death of rikyu) on his way to edo. the book was complied by nanbosokei(top student of rikyu) describing rikyus ideas about tea and it was source of anecdotes about rikyu. first scroll: memorandum (record of statements by rikyu) second scroll: tea gatherings third scroll: shelves fourth scroll: reception rooms fifth scroll: formal shelf sixth scroll: citations seventh scroll: memoirs (secret matters best transmitted orally and information added after the death of rikyu). genshitsu sen and soshitsu sen () source: http ://1000ya.isis.ne.jp/.html edo period (-) ii naosuke (-) daimyo (lord) of hikone domain( ) tairo(high rank official) of tokugawa shogunate , - signing the harris treaty with the us, granting access to ports for trade to american merchants and seamen enthusiastic and accomplished practitioner of the japanese tea ceremony, in the sekishry style ichigo-ichie(one time one meeting) collection of tea gathering / see reading list of weeks - meiji period ( - ) - also known as okakura tenshin japanese scholar on arts, okakura researched japan' traditional art and traveled to europe, the us, china and india much has been said of the aesthetic values of chanoyu-the love of the subdued and austere -most commonly characterized by the term, wabi. wabioriginally suggested an atmosphere of desolation, both in the sense of solitariness and in the sense of the poverty of things . in the long history of various japanese arts, the sense of wabigradually came to take on positive meaning to be recognized for its profound religious sense. ... okakura kakuz, the book of tea () taisho( -) and showa periods ( -) - the esthetics of chanoyu () es/minutes23_1.html tanigawa analyzed chanoyu and divided it into four elements: )its artistic element )element as social activity )element as formal decorum )ascetic training sen, & sen, () fullerton, . (). big in japan. http:// -in-japan . retrieved jan . uk tea and infusions association. murai , . (). brief history of tea in japan. soshitsu sen xv (ed), translated by alfred birnbaum. chanoyu : the urasenke tradition of tea. ny: john weatherhill . okura, . (). the book of tea. available at: - texts.com/bud/tea.htm retrieved december . retrieved dec . ometesenke official websites. available at: retrieved jan . (in chinese) chanoyu ichiesh ; kan'yachawa/ ii naosuke cho; toda katsuhisa kch. ; / ; . cha zhishu: cha daomeixue/ gangcang juesanzhu; xu shuzhen yizhu. : / ; . ribencha daowen huagailun/ qian zongshi shending ; tengjun zhu. / ; (teng, ) sadno tetsugaku / hisamatsu shinichi ; fujiyoshi jikaihen. / ; . sen, & sen, . eds. (). urasenke chadotextbook. japan: tankosha . wabino chado/ hisamatsu shin'ichi . / . (the movie) --riky[videorecording ] / shchiku eiga; gensaku nogamiyaeko; kyakuhon agasegawa genpei, teshigahara hiroshi ; kantoku teshigahara hiroshi. [videorecording ] / ; ; , ; . for weeks - murai , . (). brief history of tea in japan. in . sen. (ed.). chanoyu : the urasenke tradition of tea, pp. -. new york, ny : weatherhill . (see also chapter , isbn. ) library semi -closed section tanimura , . (). tea of the warrior in the late tokugawa period. in . morgan (ed,). japanese tea culture : art, history , and practice , pp. -. new york, ny : routledgecurzon . (see also chapter . isbn. ) library semi -closed section and library - book sen, . (). the japanese way of tea. honolulu: university of hawaii press. (see chapter : rikyu and the fruition of the way of tea, pp. -) library -book
sm2715 creative coding unit ambient: random, noise, maths manfred lau topics unit 1basics: processing, data type unit structure: function, class unit 3image processing unit image processing unit vide processing unit ambient: random, noise, maths unit ambient: random, noise, math unit audio processing unit time -based media unit game and physical simulation unit particle systems quick review of unit06 -random, noise, maths -what does the following code do? float = .; void draw() { float noisevalue = noise(); println(noisevalue); += ; // += .; // += .; } 0t quick review of unit06 -what does the following code do? x2 = noise() * width; y2 = noise( + ) * heigh ; += .; cartesian vs polar coordinates trigonometry in processing sin(angle) , cos(angle) angle: in radians radians(degrees) : convert degree measurement to its corresponding value in radians radians = pi*(degrees/) for example: radians = pi*( /)= *pi radians = pi*( /)= pi radians = pi*( /)= pi/ radians = pi*( /)= example 1a : draw circle using trigonometry rotational drawing centx, centy example 1b : turn circle into spiral rotational drawing example 2a: noisy spiral radius + noise() * ; float r_noise = example 2a: noisy spiral + = example 2b: continuous motion using 2d noise function unit07 example 2a: note that this is different in that example2a re -draws the spiral each time compare with unit0 example6b : which was drawing points from left to right on the screen instead of the spiral here based on example 2b create spiral of turns or more use noise function to create randomi zed but continuous color at each segmentexercise (just for you to try now, not for submission) example 3a: random orbit change both angle and radius across framesexample 3a example 3b: circular random walk how can we rotate the square around its centre while it orbits around the window centre ? example 3b -stop here this week -start here with 2d transformations next time transform the coordinate system 2d transformations translate(, ); rect(, , , ); rotate(radians()); rect(, , , ); transformations are cumulative transformations apply to everything that happens after transformations are reset at the beginning of draw() loop2d transformations // move the origin to the pivot point translate(, ); // then pivot the grid rotate(radians()); // and draw the square at the origin fill(); rect(, , , ); example rotate the square around its centre while it orbits around the window centreexercise (just for you to try now, not for submission) matrix stack: pushmatrix() -saves the current coordinate system and popmatrix() -restores the prior coordinate system. transformations between pushmatrix() and popmatrix() will not apply to anything that happens after popmatrix() 2d transformations example extend exercise to draw spinning rectangles orbiting around the window centreexercise (just for you to try now, not for submission) you can simply replace the rectangle with any other shape (.., house() ); can you rewrite exercise inoop style?exercise 3_ oop (just for you to try now, not for submission) hints:unit07_exercise3_oop example : 2d moving noise visuali zation //make the noise keep moving in diagonal direction modify example ( drawpoint ) to achieve different noise visuali zation increase space between pointsexercise (just for you to try now, not for submission) visuali zed using rotation little fluffy clouds
sm2715 creative coding unit ambient: random, noise, maths manfred lau topics (about one unit per week, but not exactly) unit 1basics: processing, data type unit structure: function, class unit 3image processing unit image processing unit vide processing unit ambient: random, noise, maths unit ambient: random, noise, math unit audio processing unit time -based media unit game and physical simulation unit particle systems quick review of last week -video processing: movie class -what does the following code do? quick review of last week -what does the following code do? - genre of music that puts an emphasis on tone and atmosphere over traditional musical structure or rhythm -tends to be repetitive, gentle, and soothing sound -example: ambient : music for airports by brian eno (one of the pioneers of ambient music) -designed to be continuously looped as sound installation, with the intent of defusing the tense, anxious atmosphere of an airport terminal ambient music must be able to accommodate many levels of listening attention without enforcing one in particular; it must be as ignorable as it is interesting. [brian eno ]ambient music -artthat can capture mood (of place ) -there can be modifications as users interact indirectly with the artefactambient art properties of ambient art -no fixed end point, runs continuously -never static, constantly changing -does not require continual attention from audience -seeks to create mood/environment -may explore relationships between multiple senses, or modalities, .., sight/sound structure of ambient art -uses dynamic or fluid structure , often via mathematical functions, generative systems, external data sources, or user interaction -structure is not immediately recognizable, but perceived subconsciously, or over longer durations of time -may explore emergent behavior to create interest or surprise techniques for ambient art -randomness -mathematical functions : noise, sin/cos, modulo -generative algorithms/systems, often derived from natural systems: flocking/schooling, automata, physical simulation, evolutionary systems -emergent behaviors lets play follow the mouseexample 1a float = , = ; void setup() { size( , ); } void draw() { background( ); // circle follows the mouse exactly ellipse( mousex , mousey , , ); } unit06_e xample1a natural motion float =, =; void setup() { size( , ); } void draw() { background( ); // now follow the mouse naturally = lerp(, mousex, .); = lerp(, mousey, .); ellipse(, , , ); } example 1b (mousex , mousey )(,) what if we want the color of our circle to change as we get near to the mouse how can we tell when we are close? example 1c // dist() takes points (x1, y1, x2, y2) float =dist(, , mousex, mousey); exercise (just for you to try now, not for submission) -use lerp() and dist()to move circle smoothly around the screen, from random point to random point -the circle ' color should gradually change, getting brighter as it nears its destination each time -the circle will move to new random point when it is close to the destination -start with unit0 6_example1c example 1d_oop random numbers vs. perlin noise random numbers : series of numbers with no discernible pattern and no relationship between them (independent of each other) perlin noise : naturally ordered (.., smooth) sequence of random numbers -invented by ken perlin for producing procedur altexturesrandom numbers vs.perlin noise random numbers over timeperlin noise over time 0noise() random(,) float = .; void draw() { float noisevalue = noise(); println(noisevalue); += ; // += .; // += .; } perlin noise in processing noise() function: random sequence generator producing more natural succession of numbers compared to the standard random() function 1d perlin noise noise() : linear sequence of values noise() = (between and ) over time example numbers move up and down randomly but stay close to the value of their predecessor the smaller the scale, the smoother the resulting noise sequence 0t perlin noise in processing how quickly we increment also affects the smoothness of the noise. if we make large jumps in time, then we are skipping ahead more and the values will be more different/ random . float = .; void draw() { float noisevalue = noise(); println(noisevalue); += ; // += .; // += .; } perlin noise in processing example numbers move up and down randomly but stay close to the value of their predecessor the smaller the scale, the smoother the resulting noise sequence t0. . . . .... .. natural movement of line how to move the vertical line in natural way along -axis (left/right) over time? void setup() { size( , ); } void draw() { background( ); float =random( , width); line(, , , height); } float =; void setup() { size( , ); } void draw() { background( ); float =noise() *width; line(, , , height); = +. ; } natural movement of line random vs noise example 3b example 3a size(, ) float =noise() *width; means: float =(.?? ~ ) *; = ( ~ );how can the noise function generate smooth and random values over time ? try to print over time println ();how it works in each draw()? you can get smooth random values over time now example (lastx , lasty ) last position (nx, ) current position random walk with natural motion x2 = x1 + random( -, ); y2 = y1 + random( -, );x2 = noise() * width; y2 = noise( + ) * width; += .; example 5a example 5b noise space in example 5b x2 = noise() * width; tnoise y2 = noise( + ) * width; why does x2 start at and y2 at ? while these numbers are arbitrary choices, we have very specifically initialized our two time variables with different values. this is because the noise function is deterministic: it gives you the same result for specific time each and every time. if we asked for the noise value at the same time for both and , then x2 and y2 would always be equal, meaning that the walker object would only move along diagonal. instead, we simply use two different parts of the noise space, starting at for x2 and for y2 so that x2 and y2 can appear to act independently of each other. draw circles here (orchoose single shape of your choice ), and animate all of its parameters using noise (). use it to make something creativeexercise 2a(just for you to try now, not for submission) noise space in exercise 2a = noise() * width; tnoise = noise( + ) * heigh ; 20mycolor = noise( + ) * ; 30mysize = noise(*) * ; draw squares here (or choose single shape of your choice ), and animate all of its parameters using noise (). use it to make something creative exercise 2b(just for you to try now, not for submission) = noise() * width; tnoise = noise( + ) * heigh ; 10myrotate = noise( + ) * ; 40noise space in exercise 2b create composition of multiple circles (or some shapes )that continuously evolve over timeexercise (just for you to try now, not for submission) exercise each circle has itsown noise space = = =3i= =4i= noise space in exercise tnoise 30i= tnoise 31i= tnoise 32i= tnoise 33i= tnoise1 = tnoise1 = can you use the oop concept to organize the circle variables into circle class and then use it to recreate the same effect?exercise 3_oop -stop here this week -look at more dimensional noise functions next time to use noise in multiple dimensions, we create one variable for each dimension that starts at some fixed number and increases by small amount each loop/frame. float n1, n2; void draw() { background( ); float result =noise(n1, n2); ... n1 =n1 +. ; n2 =n2 +. ; } ( ) 1d this idea of noise values living in one -dimensional space is important because it leads us right into discussion of two-dimensional space. lets think about this for moment. with one -dimensional noise, we have sequence of values in which any given value is similar to its neighbour . because the value is in one dimension, it only has two neighbours : value that comes before it (to the left on the graph) and one that comes after it (to the right). two -dimensional noise works exactly the same way conceptually. the difference of course is that we arent looking at values along linear path, but values that are sitting on grid. think of piece of graph paper with numbers written into each cell. given value will be similar to all of its neighbours : above, below, to the right, to the left, and along any diagonal. 1d vs size(, ); background(); nostroke (); float tx=; for (int = ; < width; ++) { float bright = noise( tx)* ; fill(bright); rect(, width/,,); tx+=.; }size(, ); background(); nostroke (); float tx=, ty=; for (int = ; < height; ++) { tx=; for (int = ; < width; ++) { float bright = noise( tx, ty)* ; fill(bright); rect(, , , ); tx+=.; } ty+=.; }ty txtx // lets draw points across the screen with noise void setup() { size(, ); background (); float tx=; for ( inti = ; < width ; ++) { point(, width / + noise (tx) * ); tx+=.; } } example 6a ( ) size(,); float ty = .; for (int = ; < ; ++) { float tx= .; for (int = ; < ; ++) { float bright = noise( tx, ty)*; stroke(bright); point(, ); tx+= .; } ty += .; } size(,); for (int = ; < ; ++) { for (int = ; < ; ++) { float bright = random(, ); stroke(bright); point(, ); } } ty tx ( ) sexample 6b for (int = ; < width; ++) { stroke(,); // semi -transparent point(, + noise(tx, ty) * ); tx += .; // update shape -related noise parameter } ty += .; // update time -related noise parameter } ( , ) -change the scales of input coordinates to noise() with respect to mouse position -fill the region under the wave large value of mousex small value of mousexn ( ) we can also use functions like sin() and cos() to move gradually between values, like we did with noise()mathematical functions remember that they will always return value between - and output:use sin() to make sequence of squares gradually grow and shrinkexample output: float = ; while ( < ) { float = sin(angle + *pi/)* + ; rect( + ( * ), , , , ); ++; } angle += .; while ( < ) { //float = sin(angle + *pi/)* + ; float = customnoise(angle + *pi/)* + ; rect( + ( * ), , , , ); ++; } angle += .; } float customnoise(float angle) { return pow(sin(angle), ) * noise(angle*); } output:create your own noise by mixing up few math transformationscustom noise output:
light lecture olafur eliasson, the wheatear project () let there be lightlet there be... and god said: myth of creation or cosmogoniesfrom cosmos ()= to prepare, to arrange, order) ...often involve first the separation of dark and light(before there were none). why? fire? incredible as it may be, this is really what happened in the big bang! we revere light and fear darknessseems obvious. but why? ra, ancient egyptian god of the sunis king of the gods tian gou, the sun-eating dog diwalifestival of lights, one of the major festivals celebrated byhindus,jainsandsikhs loy krathong(thai festival of lights) and yi peng (lantern festival)light is generally auspicious obscurity and shadows are ominous... thedark sideof theforcewhy? the individual is placed at the center of the universe, the light source instead of godlight is reason, science and progress: propagates, illuminates, radiates: the eligthementopposed to darkness, which absorbs, consumes the fire.. from the dark ages to.. enlightenment these connotations are unshakeable and cross-cultural there are pervasive in art, writing and probably affect scientific thinking! black holesdark matter (literally it is!) in medieval (western) literature, the white knight represented virtue, the black knight something mysterious and sinister. but things are more nuanced magnus opus transmutation of silver into gold constant transformation, spectrum of perfection what is light? is it thing? wave (of what?)have different frequency (color)have different length (wavelength)have different speedcan be attenuatedcan reflected and refracted can be scattered / diffusiondispersed (depending on color)can interfere and bend around corners (diffraction) ...there is more to light, but we can play lot with that! (*) electricityelectrical forceelectrical field note: can we sense (quasi) static electrical fields?well, yes, through the felt forces of attraction (think hairs), but also each time you lay on table! however, some animals can see the direction of the field more precisely (demo) note:many artists and scientists have played with rendering the invisible visible such as hearing ultrasounds, or hearing electromagnetic waves all around us, sometimes inspired by the animal kingdom (ex: navbelt, etc)sensorium of animals susanna hertrich, shintaromiyazaki magnetismmagnetic fieldmagnetic force note: can we sense (quasi) static magnetic fields directly like some animals do? (demo) change in magnetic field change in electrical field! faraday' law of induction:change magnetic field induces current (creates an electrical field)(how dynamos work) amperes law: current induces magnetic field(how electrical motors work)these changing fields induce each other and propagate.the propagating and oscillating fields is called light how do we sense light? (cameras or eyes) by the rocking on charged particles by the electromagnetic waves! photoelectric effect (einstein nobel prize) antenna, induction (current) these electrons induce chemical reactions (retina, photosynthesis) create voltage in semiconductors (photocells) the currents generated are amplified and move speaker: radios. also induction heaters, microwave oven how soon would we know if the sun went out? minutes and secondsthe speed of light, the speed of darkness fizeau experiment,carried out byhippolyte fizeauin proxima centaurithe closest star we see: . light-years (,,,, km)the sky is old! icarusfarthest star we can see: . billion light-years!!(note: estimated age of the universe: . billion years.... what?) experiment 1transform an old webcam into an infrared camera note: uv photography? (you know -ray photography!) refractiona change of speed, for the same frequency each frequency is associated with color (there is more to it we saw that)however, the propagation speed depends on frequency, and hence refractiontherefore... white light disperse in many colors! but things are not so simple about color psychophysicsof color and optical illusions (opportunities for playing with color perception) known before (ex: ce, byptolemy)newton disc substractivecolor (absorption of certain wavelengths from white light) color from wavelength-selective absorptioncolor from refraction/diffraction (later) color printer (subtractive colors) additive color: rgb display problem! how you get indigo/violet!!?? (only and pixels) actual spectral sensitivity of rod cells... ...after post processing ...there is red component towards the violet!(in fact, you see magenta) how you see violet??? the eye and the digital camera... taking picture of rainbow (how you get the indigo/violet!!??) dlp projector rainbow effect? we saw that the concept of color is more complicated than just this post-processing context dependent, perceptual hallucinations? motion & color phenomenology of color perception and the (persistent illusory) qualiathe knowledge argumentmary is brilliant scientist who is, for whatever reason, forced to investigate the world from black and white room via black and white television monitor. she specializes in theneurophysiologyof vision and acquires, let us suppose, all the physical information there is to obtain about what goes on when we see ripe tomatoes, or the sky, and use terms like "red", "blue", and so on. she discovers, for example, just which wavelength combinations from the sky stimulate the retina, and exactly how this produces via thecentral nervous systemthe contraction of the vocal cords and expulsion of air from the lungs that results in the uttering of the sentence "the sky is blue".what will happen when mary is released from her black and white room or is given acolor televisionmonitor? will she learnanything or not?[] ...the inverted spectrum thought experiment ... remember the kittens? ... the impossible (new) color! titian was master of glazing(the layering of colour, possible only when the pigment is mixed with oil), and he achieved translucencyand luminosityof colourthat had been simply impossible in egg tempera painting. he would build up possibly dozens of extremely thin layers of the same colour(like panes of glass) in slightly differing shades, creating prism-likeeffect on the surface with the pigment. the light would enter the layers of the paint and bounce off the white ground surface and return back. the end result was deep inner colourglowfrom within the very image itself. virgin and child with saints catherine and dominic and donorpainters need to master these physicaland perceptualphenomena op-art timemagazine coined the termop artin .the antecedents of op art, in terms of graphic and coloreffects, can be traced back toneo impressionism, cubism,futurism, constructivismand dada. lszl moholy-nagyproduced photographic op art and taught the subject in thebauhaus. one of his lessons consisted of making his students produce holes in cards and then photographing them. the neuroscience of op art [sarah gottesman] jsusrafael soto ... interesting: interaction? integrating the public actions/perception daniel rozin daniel rozin, mirror of the soul ... hyperbolic geometry, conformal mappings... artists from the light and space movement in the 1960s began experimenting with light as medium in their work. doug wheeler created infinity rooms which attempted to induce the ganzfeld effect in viewersjames turrellstudied experimental psychology and works with natural light. his life work, the rodencrater in arizona in built into natural crater in the desert, turrells work would even inspire music video by drake... ) what is black? in which sense it is color? bri%sh ar%stsanish kapoorand stuart semple are currently engaged in public feud of the world' "blackest back," pigments so dark that they can actually render 3d objects visually at at rst glance. the back-and-forth seems to be inspiring some scien% breakthroughs (*)) what is white? in which sense it is color? why cannot projectorproject black? what is vantablack?vantablackwas originally designed for use inspace traveland optics as an application on sensitive materials to help improve the visibility of distant objects being studied. for example,coating telescopein vantablackabsorbs glare, making it easier for users to see distant stars and planets. ( absorbslight? color filter stephen knappcastled void white on white, kazimir malevich, (suprematism) darkness is the absence of light. shadow is the diminution of light.the beginnings and ends of shadow lie between the light and darkness and may be infinitely diminished and infinitely increased. shadow is the means by which bodies display their form. the forms of bodies could not be understood in detail but for shadow.hence, would remind you, painter! to dress your figures in the lightest colorsyou can, since, if you put them in dark colors, they will be in too slight relief, and inconspicuous in distance. and the reason is that shadows of all objects are dark. and if you make dress dark, there is little variety in the lights and shadows, while in light colorsthere are many grades. leonardo da vinci (in his notebooks!!)note: black light (uv light) is misnomer (see fluorescence) painter should begin every canvas with wash of black, because all things in nature are dark except where exposed by the light. the italian baroque painter caravaggio used chiaroscuroeffects, using gradient layers of shading to create the illusion of depth. the calling of saint matthew, caravaggio as with light, darkness is narrative device, to direct the audiences attention to different characters and elements in the story in the same lighting is used in the theatre. the storm on the sea of galilee,rembrandt. david and goliath,caravaggiotenebrism note on projection screens (frontal and rear projection)they need to absorb as much ambient light as possible to produce good blacks ... but not the light from the projectorso, good screens need to absorb light differently depending on the angle of incidence. sophisticated rear projection screen basic light phenomena to play with shadows thtre 'ombreschristian boltanski what emitslight?relation with temperature! question: how many of you noticed that stars have colors? betelgeuse rigel the site-specific installation the weather project employed semi-circular screen, ceiling of mirrors, and artificial mist to create the illusion of sun. aluminium frames lined with mirror foil were suspended from the ceiling to create giant mirror that visually doubled the volume of the hall along with the semi-circular screen mounted on the far wall, its long edge abutting the mirror ceiling. backlit by approximately mono-frequency lights, the semi-circle and its reflection created the image of massive, indoor sunset seen through the artificial mist emitted into the room. by walking to the far end of the hall, visitors could see how the sun was constructed, and the reverse of the mirror structure was visible from the top floor of the museum. olafur eliasson ... so, if something does not keep heating under the sun, it must emit light! infrared photographythermal imaging ) reflection monet would use impressionistic brushwork to represent the pattern of reflectionsover surface. such perceptual phenomena were impossible to capture with more realist painting styles so he relied on using colourand light to generate the same cues the brains uses to perceive these patterns. the mirror there is more that hits the eye bronze mirror,new kingdom of egypt,eighteenth dynasty, bc ...the mirror transforms, its associated with magic ...even in science it does wonders! first ruby laser () ... notice the fascinating effect of repetition, pattern, structure our eyes seems to already read more than what was there: gestalt, symmetries (=> symmetries trigger apophenia)we will come back about this effect of regularity when we talk about fractals,.processing2.p5.js3.shadertoykaleidoscope yayoi kusama infinity mirrors infinity mirrors are made of parallel half-mirrors, an interesting optical device...peppers ghost dan graham: two-way mirror triangle with one curved side ling sum yi, sm3808 (interactive installation) carmen cheung, sm3808 (interactive physical game!)li hu ching, sm3808 (fashion? wearable?)some examples from past lectures note: modern peppers ghost effect and fake holographic displays easy to do!instructables: now we can even do the reverse: compute how it will reflect (or refract) composite mirror retroreflector... (strange mirrors!) million dollar question: why mirror reverses left and right and not up and down??? ) refraction refraction can be used to create all sort of optical elements to manipulate light and images ... sacrilege! parhelion: or sun dogs (not kidding)its caused by refraction by tiny ice crystals..."sun dog painting" (vdersolstavlan) depictingstockholmin . the phenomenon was an ominous presage... ... computational refraction total internal reflection ... frustratedtotal internal reflection and displays mirages ) caustics in 2d (refraction or reflection) english painter, draftsman, printmaker, stage designer and photographer. an important contributor to the pop art movement of the 1960s, he is considered one of the most influential british artists of the 20th century. david hockney ...caustics in 3d? barrier kimchi and chips used to do 3d printing! ) light scattering, diffusion ) surface scattering: reflection by an unpolished surface ) refraction / diffraction on volume with variable refraction index and particles monet'"woman with parasol"()diffuse scattering in this painting the diffusely scattered lightfrom the ground(yellow flowers and yellow-green grass) is best seen on the left sleeve of the woman (monet' wife camille) as yellow "stain" on the background of "white" dress. the dress is experienced as white, but it is in fact painted with blue tones due to light that strikes it diffusely from the blue sky -the direct light strikes the dress from behind (from the right and from the depth of the painting) and one can see it only in narrow surfaces, small white "ribbons" on the back of the dress (*) portrait of an unknown woma,leonardo da vinci, in thelouvre, paris. why the sky is blue during the day, and the sunset red ? ...particle scattering! ) dispersion (color separation) dispersion by water droplets: the rainbow! ) fluorescence phosphorescence? examples of bio-luminiscence both fluorescence and phosphorescence are based on the ability of substance to absorb light and emit light of longer wavelength and therefore lower energy. the main difference is the time in which it takes to do so. eduardo kac, pioneer bio art ) filters, polarization if you dont have polarizer... what polarizes light naturally?-reflection -some crystals... active shutter glasses can we see polarization? (as birds do to orient themselves) (you need to use your computer screen, not the projection with dlp)???????? .. who could see these faint patterns (anywhere in the screen)? as you rotate the head, they turn. demo : polarization & colors .tape, piece of plastic2.plastic stuff3. polarizers ....or one (glasses?) and monitor [] polarization microscopy () getting drunk in beauty! ) diffraction, diffractive optical elementsholograms ... same with light! (but need to be laser)interference in water waves coherent light, lasers, holography (diffraction) notebook exercise :notice, draw, collect and classify causticsgraphic language? la la land, wu man yi, (animation), sm3808 experiments part iinotebook exercises, demos practical tips& riddles tip: making lenses with water (and surviving in the wild ;) [] people also made other optical elements with ice! ... imagine an ice cathedral playing with light as it melts refraction(the guy built telescope...)tirf : what is going on? explore hypothesis by sketching in your notebook. it may give you ideas for optical art sculptures and installations... floating hologram using smartly crafted mirror (reflection) shiva laserwas powerful -beaminfraredneodymiumglass(silica glass)laserbuilt atlawrence livermore national laboratoryin for the study ofinertial confinement fusion(icf) ) light and minds artists from the light and space movement in the 1960s began experimenting with light as medium in their work. doug wheeler created infinity rooms which attempted to induce the ganzfeld effect in viewersjames turrellstudied experimental psychology and works with natural light. his life work, the rodencrater in arizona in built into natural crater in the desert, turrells work would even inspire music video by drake... light corner from carsten hller is an installation of three wall panels forming , holding grid of light bulbs flickering at frequency of hz combined with clicking stereo signal that continues back and forth between two audio speakers. note that this frequency range corresponds to the cortical alpha frequencies, recorded over the occipital areas when humans are relaxed with their eyes closed, or to the cortical mu frequencies, recorded over the motor areas when humans are at rest. such oscillation rhythms are decreased upon eyes opening or movement preparation. interestingly, such frequencies are also in the range of the main postural body oscillations. the front wall of the artwork was about . high4 large, whereas the two side walls were about . high3 large. short movie of the artwork can be found here. the visitor was placed at approximately from each wall. thus, the visual angle subtended by the artwork was superior to 230on the horizontal meridian and 44on the vertical meridian. this artwork is designed to induce optic and acoustic hallucinations to visitors keeping their eyes opened or closed. the biblical story of the conversion of saul on the road to damascus was popular biblical narrative in western art associating light with god
sm3809 software art studio this week reviewwhy use code for art ?recursion, fractals, trees, tilingkata: sierpinski, mondrianpresent: abstractionscritique: activationsemergence & complexity review: continuous changeconditionals, modulointerpolation (lerp)random walkoscillatorsnoise 4why make art with code?before we do too much thinking about the how or the what of creative coding, we should also think about the why what can we do with code that we cannot do with more traditional media (painting, photography, lm, etc.)? what are the specic affordances of code as medium? come up with your best answers (<= ) to this question and report back to the group. the goal is to generate many ideas... media are no more than objects that have their unique set of physical attributes. some paint liquids are more viscous than others. some wire is more bendable than others. some blocks are heavier than others. these variables affect the ease with which particular medium can be used to capture or express [something]. it would be hard to represent some familiar aspect of snow using thumb tacks, but easier to do so with white sand. we call this relation the affordances of media. what aspects of referent (.. snow) does the media afford (easily allow) ?george . foremanaffordances emergencewhen the interaction of many entities, each following simple rules, results in the collective exhibiting complex behavior, which often cannot be predicted by looking at the individual entities recursion fractals transforms randomness noise() recursion image by jan misset for droste cacaa, recursionrecursion /ri-kr-zhn/ . when an entity is defined by one or more references to itself. urban dictionary, 2019recursionrecursion /ri-kr-zhn/ . see recursion. example: factorial1! = ! = * = ! = * * = ! = * * * = ! = * * * * = how can we define the factorial() function ? test-driven development (tdd) non-recursive solution example: factorial1! = ! = * = ! = * * = ! = * * * = ! = * * * * = can we write recursive version of factorial() ? example: factorial1! = ! = * = ! = * * = ! = * * * = ! = * * * * = can we write factorial() recursively ? example: factorial1! = ! = * = ! = * * = ! = * * * = ! = * * * * = can we write factorial() recursively ? example: factorial5! = = * * * * = * ( * * * ) = * ! example: factorial1! = ! = * = ! = * * = ! = * * * = ! = * * * * = can we write recursive version of factorial() ? example: factorialfor any number (where > ):factorial() = * factorial(-) factorial() = example: factorial let' double check fractalfraktal /ri-kr-zhn/ . fractal is repeating patterns that is self-similar across different scales. fractals are created by repeating simple process over and over in feedback loop. driven by recursion, fractals patterns are often familiar, since nature is full of fractals. adapted from fractalfoundation.org/resources/what-are-fractals/ fractals the sierpinski triangle sierpinski triangle1. start with an equilateral triangle . make new triangle from the midpoints of the sides of the triangle. . repeat for each of the three newly created trianglesprocedure: . start with an equilateral triangle . make new triangle from the three midpoints of the sides of the triangle . repeat for each of the three newly created triangles . repeat for each of the three newly created triangles and repeat... and repeat code kata: sierpinski sierpinski triangle koch curve koch curve koch snowflake fractal tree example: fractal tree draw branch. from its end, rotate right and draw shorter branch. then rotate left and do the same. repeat for the two new branches... fractal tree we can start like this.... different way to draw shapes translate() rotate() scale()there are two basic ways of drawing shapes in p5.js: ) position the shapes where we want them ) move the paper & draw shapes at the origin (,) affine transformationstranslate() > move left/right or up/down rotate() > rotate around the -axis ( 2d) scale() > make bigger or smallerfunctions that (essentially) move the 'graph paper': affine transformspush() > 'save' the state of the coordinate system, so that we can return to it later pop() > go back to the last 'saved' state for the coordinate system these two are often used as well: fractal tree translate(), rotate(), line() translate(), rotate(), line()draw branch. from its end, rotate right and draw shorter branch. then rotate left and do the same. repeat for the two new branches... . draw line of given length . from its end, rotate right and draw shorter line . from its end, rotate left and draw shorter line . repeat for the two new lines...fractal tree . draw line of given length . from its end, rotate right & draw shorter branch . from its end, rotate left & draw shorter branch . repeat ...fractal treea (recursive) branch function: fractal tree fractal tree fractal tree fractal tree exit condition ? fractal tree fractal tree now lets experiment with our variables: angle & lengthscale exploring parameter space we now have two variables: angle and lenscale how can we *quickly* explore their possible values? mapping the mouse position we can map() the angle to mousex and the lenscale to mousey review: mapping the mousedescription maps number from one range to another. map(value, start1, stop1, start2, stop2); fractal tree whats the problem with this tree? fractal tree lets use random() variation to make it look more natural... fractal tree now lets use noise() to give it some natural motion... the randomseed() function the noise() functiondescription perlin noise is random sequence generator producing more natural ordered, harmonic succession of numbers compared to the standard random() function. // 1d noise, 'value' should increase slowly output = noise(value); fractal tree recursion fractals affine transforms random seeds noise example recursion /ri-kr-zhn/ . when an entity is defined by one or more references to itself. code kata: mondrian code kata: mondrian lets come up with (recursive) plan... present: abstractions ... jackson pollock number () critique: activations ...code your own abstract work that changes continually over time. try to create specic mood or idea for the viewer. goal: make your work interesting and engaging over both short ( few seconds) and long ( minute or more) viewing durations.
robotic artweek 7alvaro cassinelli -sm3808 kinetic sculpturesrobotic collaboration (dance, music, etc)reflection on life, existence, agency, the artificial...useless, existential machinesandroids robotic artis any artwork that employs some form ofroboticor automated technology. there are many branches of robotic art, one of which isrobotic installation art, type ofinstallation artthat is programmed to respond to viewer interactions, by means of computers, sensors and actuators. the future behaviorof such installations can therefore be altered by input from either the artist or the participant, which differentiates these artworks from other types ofkinetic art.robotic art can also concern the automatic creationof an artwork, through more or less controlled mechanical processes (like in generative art)robotic art vs kinetic art jean tinguely( may august ) was swisssculptorbest known for hiskinetic artsculptural machines (known officially asmetamechanics) that extended thedadatradition into the later part of the 20th century.[]tinguely'sart satirizedautomationand the technologicaloverproductionof material goods. chaos (), sculpture in the commons,columbus, indiana, usa tinguely'sheurekainzrich-seefeld(zrichhorn) butterfly,rebecca horn pataphysicalmachines and existential robots'pataphysics will be, above all, the science of the particular, despite the common opinion that the only science is that of the general. 'pataphysics will examine the laws governing exceptions, and will explain the universe supplementary to this one -alfred jarry.alfred jarry( september november ) was frenchsymbolistwriter who is best known for his playubu roi() dialogue #-mike kelley, (an excerpt from "theory, garbage, stuffed animals, christ") michael kelley(october , .january , ) was an american artist. his work involvedfound objects, textile banners,drawings,assemblage,collage,performanceandvideo.the stuffed toys, furry animals and kitschy cute yarn dolls that hang and sprawl through the chamber are not an intentional non-sequitur but medium employed to express sex and death theodorusgerardus jozef"theo"jansenis dutch artist. in , he began building large mechanisms out ofpvcthat are able to move on their own and, collectively, are entitled,strandbeest. thekinetic sculpturesappear to walk.[]his animated works are intended to be fusion ofartandengineering. he has said that "the walls betweenartandengineeringexist only in our minds." he strives to equip his creations with their ownartificial intelligenceso they may avoid obstacles such as the sea, by changing course when detected.strandbeest machine with concrete. thegear reductionsmean the final gear will make one revolution in over trillion years. the machine runs uninterrupted even though the final gear is embedded in concrete, and cannot rotate.arthur ganson(born ) is akinetic sculptor. he makes mechanical art demonstrations andrube goldberg machineswithexistentialthemes. maywadenki "nonsense factorytechno-dada? "yurex" jitter counter by meiwa denki device art device art is an art form that merges art, design, technology, science and entertainment. the resulting creations deploy innovative materials and techniques to engender contrivances featuring elaborate, whimsical design conceived to bring us face-to-face with technologys essence. in device art, the device itself is the content; its form and appearance are inseparable from its function. reuben garrett lucius goldberg(july , december , ), known best asrube goldberg, was an american cartoonist, sculptor, author, engineer, and inventor. goldberg is best known for his popular cartoons depicting complicated gadgets performing simple tasks in indirect, convoluted ways. the cartoons led to the expression "rube goldberg machines" to describe similar gadgets and processes.rube goldberg machine just because... machine, sometimes known as "useless box", is device which has function but no direct purpose. it may be intended to make aphilosophicalpoint, as an amusing engineering "hack", or as an intellectual joke. devices which have no function or which malfunction are not considered to be "useless machines".the most well-known "useless machines" are those inspired bymarvin minsky'sdesign, in which the device' sole function is to switch itself off by operating its own "off" switch. more elaborate devices andnovelty toys, having some obvious function or entertainment value, have been based on these simple "useless machines". cybernetic rattenkonig,, horacio cassinelli (technical contribution . cassinelli) hitchbotwasa canadianhitchhikingrobotcreated by professors david harris smith ofmcmaster universityand fraukezeller ofryerson universityin .[][][]it gained international attention for successfully hitchhiking acrosscanada,germanyand thenetherlands, but in its attempt to hitchhike across theunited statesended prematurely when the robot was stripped and decapitated inphiladelphia,pennsylvania. "double-taker (snout)" (interactive installation, , golan levin) deals in whimsical manner with the themes of trans-species eye contact, gestural choreography, subjecthood, and autonomous surveillance. complex mechanism exhibit agency because...we cannot predict them?they have unexpected glitches that make them unique?shybot, . cassinelli, robot collaboratora tool or peer?performance elevenplay rzm "ray" dance with robots and lasers (. manabe, ) need to debug the unit, says the -year-old artist. it wont cooperate with me today....picasso used the tools of his day. im interested in using the technologies that define our current moment, as way of understanding how they work in our lives."sougwenchun, robot as creator, performermechanistic creation? generative art?artificial life: artificial art? (what does it mean?)painting, improvisation, etc sisyphus kinetic art table by bruce shapiro senseless drawing bot, so kanno& takahiro yamaguchi ()(controlled chaos as creative input) remote-controlled painting machine akira kanayama "the human assistant performing the repetitive, mindless task of applying thin, uniform, transparent, slightly coloured layers. this is the only work the human does, ( times, after every stages painted by the robot). the human also waits for the paint to dryperfect technique, subversion of roles -david writing poeme-davidis painting robot developed at theuniversitt konstanz(university of konstanz) that calculates brushstrokes from an input image and paints the image on canvas. landscape designers, caretakers, crafters: creators of new worlds arthur . clarkes rendezvous with rama (novel)they live in cosmic rhythms,: they can better connect with nature... spiral sunriseesther polak, 2008a new form of minimalistic land art? "toro-bots" take walk in harajuku, . cassinelli, 2014enchanted village? robots or humans?mutual fascination the turk, also known as themechanical turkorautomaton chess player(german:schachtrke, "chess turk";hungarian: trk), was fake chess-playingmachineconstructed in the late 18th century. from until its destruction by fire in it was exhibited by various owners as anautomaton, though it was eventually revealed to be an elaboratehoax you love me?boston dynamics, gilbert prousch,sometimes referred to asgilbert proesch(born september insan martin de tor, italy), andgeorge passmore(born january inplymouth, united kingdom), are two artists who work together as the collaborative art duogilbert & george. they are known for their distinctive and highly formal appearance and manner inperformance art, and also for their brightly coloured graphic-stylephoto-based artworks. in , the artists celebrated their 50th anniversary.gilbert & georgesinging sculptures robotboyspoppin john [] robot as an extension of the bodytelepresence, embodiment... and robots as doublesa reflection of ourselvesthe sin of creationthe uncanny valleya new form of vanitas? cultural splitare robots good or bad? the future eve(also translated astomorrow' eveandthe eve of the future;french:'vefuture) is asymbolistscience fictionnovelby the french authorauguste villiers de 'isle-adam. begun in and originally published in , the novel is known for popularizing the term "android".frankenstein; or, the modern prometheusis an 1818novelwritten by english authormary shelley.frankensteintells the story ofvictor frankenstein, young scientist who creates asapientcreaturein an unorthodox scientific experiment. shelley started writing the story when she was , and the first edition was published anonymously in london on january , when she was . her name first appeared in the second edition, which was published in paris in injewish folklore, agolem(/olm/goh-lm;hebrew: (is an animatedanthropomorphicbeing that is created entirely from inanimate matter (usuallyclayormud). the word was used to mean an amorphous, unformed material inpsalmsandmedievalwriting. hands on... toy, device art, bug?the trace of its existencethe interaction with the environment vibrobots brislebots note: serious topic!!
hacking, scraping, fetchingsm3809 terminal (man, pwd, ls, cd, nano) network tools (ssh, curl, dig, whois, traceroute) code tools (node, npm, fetch, git)core tools also known as the terminal, shell, or command shell what is it? the command line lets open it (in /applications/utilities/ in os ), and look at the most basic commands: man, pwd, ls, cd, mkdir the command line when you open the terminal on your laptop or desktop, you are navigating the computer in front of you (called the local computer). using network, you can also visit other computers, at other locations. such computers are called remote computers, as they are not (usually) in front of you.local & remote computers local & remote computerseach computer on network has an ip address, and (generally) name. our course site is on rednoise.org which has the ip: ... to view the name of your computer, you can use: $ uname - $ $ uname - shard.local ... for this class, have setup remote computer, also called server, with the following name: lab-lamp.scm.cityu.edu.hklocal & remote computers we can connect to this remote computer (or server) via the ssh commandlocal & remote computers using the terminal and the ssh command, login to the remote server with the name and port below: host: lab-lamp.scm.cityu.edu.hk login: your-cityu-eid password: your-scm-password port: exercise: terminal using the terminal and the ssh command, login to the remote server with the name and port below: $ ssh - eid@lab-lamp.scm.cityu.edu.hk exercise: terminal * which would look like this now that you are logged in to the lab-lamp server, create the following folder structure using the pwd, mkdir, and cd commands use the ls command to print your results:public_html/exercises/ one/ index.htmlexercise: terminal now use the nano editor to enter some text in your new file: $ cd $ cd public_html/exercises/one $ nano index.htmlexercise: terminal once youve entered some text, make sure that you can view it here: terminal definitions: protocol protocol /prtkl/ . an agreed-upon format for transmitting data between two entities hardware or software (often) content-neutral protocolshttp() telnet ftp/sftp ssh onion routingntp smtp/pop/imap bittorrent dns ping ip addresses & dnsmappings between machine numbers (ip addresses) and human-readable names (domain names)google.com <-> ... dns structure portscommunication between machines happen, according to the rules of protocol, on specific ports for example, http generally uses port , while telnet generally uses port . each server has an address (its ip address), and name (its dns name), and each protocol (.., http , telnet, ssh, etc.) runs on specific port. portsif you recall we used our ssh command like this: $ ssh - me@lab-lamp.scm.cityu.edu.hk here, lab-lamp.scm.cityu.edu.hk is the name of the server, and is the port where the ssh protocol is running (note that the usual port for ssh is ). how would we get the ip address for the server ? portshow would we get the ip address for the server ? so we can also say: $ ssh - me@... how else could we get the servers ip address ? more with the terminalnslookup dig whois uname traceroute json_pp jq terminalthe power of pipes | ex. server locations with curl and jq pipe: shift-backslash on an apple keyboardterminal: the power of pipes | pipe examples $ ls -al | grep '^' $ ls -al | less $ ps aux | grep danihowe $ nslookup apple.com | grep "address" | awk '{print $}' | sed - 2p $ dig +short apple.com exercise: using pipes to get server locations using only the terminal, how to get the country for each ip address? exercise: using pipes to get server locations lets look at: freegeoip.app what if we wanted to lookup latitude and longitude ? lets look at: geocode.xyz/api or use an api key (api.ipgeolocation.io) $ curl - " | json_pp { "ip": "...", "continent_code": "na", "continent_name": "north america", "country_code2": "us", "country_code3": "usa", "country_name": "united states", "country_capital": "washington, ..", "state_prov": "california", "district": "", "city": "cupertino", "zipcode": "-", "latitude": ".", "longitude": "-.", "is_eu": false, "calling_code": "+", "country_tld": ".us", "languages": "en-us,es-us,haw,fr", "country_flag": } http/show many of you have used http before? what does it stand for? what is it used for? how does http actually work? based on short text messages (like most internet protocols) that must happen in specific order lets try it... http the query string the query string curl / wgetwe can use either to fetch online resources:$ wget --page-requisites web-page-url$ curl web-page-url terminal: exercise1)download public webpage with wget to somewhere on lab-lamp )then modify it with nano to make critical or political point networkswhat are they? how are they structured? what do they mean? what are the technical, social, political characteristics of networks? how do they work? how can we use them to communicate? what are the power relationships at play, and how are they enforced? can we make software art that both uses and critiques networks ? definitions: networkentities and relationships nodes and edges things and their communications computers and their connections* definitions: topology point-to-point bus star ring tree mesh hybrida pattern of interconnections (topology: one way of classifying networks) definitions: topology point-to-point bus star ring tree mesh hybrida pattern of interconnections (topology: one way of classifying networks) point-to-point bus network star network ring network tree networks )) mesh network1)) the internet the internet exercise: home page on the lab-lamp serverlogin: $ ssh - username@lab-lamp.scm.cityu.edu.hk use nano to create an index.html inside your public_html folder make home page with text, link, and an image test it in the browser at: types of network entities clients servers whats the difference? types of network entities* if the host is receiver of information, it is called client. if it is sender of information, it is called server. types of communication broadcast (one-to-all) multicast (one-to-many) point-to-point (one-to-one) types of networksby type client - to - server peer - to - peer whats the difference?by size pan (< 1m sq) lan (1m - 1km sq) wan (> km sq) propertiescentralized vs. decentralized vs. distributed ? fault-tolerant (redundant) vs. single-point-of-failure examples of each? centralized the panopticon decentralized distributed keywordsnetworks topologies protocolsapplications cookieswhat are cookies?what kind of information do they contain?how do they relate to privacy/surveillance/security? cookies1st-party cookies3rd-party cookiestracking cookies terminal efficiency tab-completionhistory arrowsaliases.bash_profile.bashrc tab-completion start typing, then use the [tab] key to finish commands automatically history arrows use the up and down arrows to cycle through recently used commands aliases use short aliases for long / complex commands command aliases we can alias long commands to whatever shortcuts we want if we want aliases to be permanent, list them in .bashrc file in our home directory the .bashrc file the .bashrc file this file is read each time you login to read it immediately (after change), do $ source ~/.bashrc shell scripts and we can combine bunch of commands into script
howe2018 sm3809 software art studio howe2018 this week reviewintroductionsclasses / objectsassignment # critiquewhy make art with code?continuous changecoding inspirations course web page howe2021 4observablehq.com howe2021 randomnesscontinuous changerule-based systemsstochastic processesreactivity / observableinteractivitylecture topics * 5recursion, self-similaritycompression, encryptionnatural language artdata-mapping & apisai & machine learningt ools: unix / git / npm howe2021 introduce your partner, including at least three of the following items:what is their background, favorite medium, etc. ?what is the thing they are most passionate about, outside of school subjects?what is the most unusual or unique thing about them ?what is their biggest fear for the future ?getting to know each other howe2021 7object-orientation review howe2021 properties- name, color, size, breedbehaviors- run, speak, hide, play 8objects howe2021 propertiesbehaviors 9objectsvariablesfunctions howe2021 in javascript, unlike languages like java, we can create objects, with properties (and even functions) without classes: 10objects let rectangle = {: ,: ,width: ,height: };these are called object literals... howe2021 object literals are perhaps most useful for json (javascript object notation), which has become an important standard for storing and transfering data. 11object literals { "": , "": , "width": , "height": }^ data for our rectangle object as json howe2021 12class rectangle { constructor(, ) { // variables this.width = ; this.height = ; } // function() area() { return this.height * this.width; } } let square = new rectangle(, ); console.log(square.area()); // but when we have properties and functions , its (almost) always better to use real classes in javascript howe2021 13class rectangle { constructor(, ) { // variables this.width = ; this.height = ; } // function() area() { return this.height * this.width; } } let square = new rectangle(, ); console.log(square.area()); // we use this to refer to properties of the object we use new to create objects from the class (this calls the constructor function) javascript class howe2021 14class rectangle { constructor(, ) { // variables this.width = ; this.height = ; } // function() area() { return this.height * this.width; } } let square = new rectangle(, ); console.log(square.area()); // we use this to refer to properties of the object we use new to create objects from the classa javascript class howe2021 15class rectangle { constructor(, ) { // variables this.width = ; this.height = ; } // function() area() { return this.height * this.width; } } let square = new rectangle(, ); console.log(square.area()); // and new automatically calls our constructor function to create the objecta javascript class howe2021 16in other languages, like java, we must rst dene class before creating any objects...class rectangle { float width, height; // properties // constructor rectangle(float , float ) { width = ; height = ; } // method() float area() { return height * width; } } rectangle rect = new rectangle(, ); system.out.println(rect.area()); // java class howe2021 code kata some examples here: does one become great musician or athlete or painter? ou need the theory and mechanics of the discipline of course. and it also helps to have talent. but, in the end, what matters most is practice; applying what you know, again and again, to new, challenging problems.the word kata comes from japanese martial arts, where students repeats form many times, making small adjustments. code kata are similar. each is short exercise (- min) outside of any project. most kata do not have single correct answer, but instead invite range of solutions at varying levels of elegance and sophistication howe2021 object-oriented gridkata #1a:create class called cell, with constructor and two functions, render() and contains( ,)layout 10x8 grid of cell objectswhen the mouse hovers over cell it should turn red howe2021 now create grid class to represent your gridit should hold cells array, lled with your cell objects it should have constructor and render() functionthe basic sketch should look something like ->object-oriented gridkata #1b let grid; function setup() { createcanvas(, ); grid = new grid(, , ); } function draw() { background(); grid.render(); } *challenge: create 2nd grid offset from the rst, with the mouse working on both (you will need to give each grid its own , position. howe2021 20why make art with code?before we do too much thinking about the how or the what of creative coding, we should think about the why?* what can we do with code that we cannot do with more traditional media (painting, photography, lm, etc.)? what are the specic affordances of code as medium? *in your assigned groups, come up with your best answers (<= ) to this question and select one member to report back to the group. the goal is to generate many ideas...* small groups howe2021 whatever you now nd weird, ugly, uncomfortable and nasty about new medium will surely become its signature. cd distortion, the jitteriness of digital video, the crap sound of -bit - all of these will be cherished and emulated as soon as they can be avoided. its the sound of failure: so much modern art is the sound of things going out of control, of medium pushing to its limits and breaking apart.... continuous change brian eno howe2021 what techniques can we use to create continuous change in our programs ?continuous change howe2021 parameterizing variablescontinuous changeof single variable within specied range howe2021 continuous change 24how to make an object stay on screen while moving continuously ? let = , = , xpsd = ; function setup() { createcanvas(, ); } function draw() { background(); fill(); circle(, , ); += xspd; } howe2021 randommodulo conditionals interpolation (lerp)random walkfunctions (sin/cos/etc)noise25continuous change howe2021 interpolation howe2021 random walk howe2021 random walk howe2021 kata #3object-oriented random walkfirst create one walker, then an array of walkersnow make them interact (avoid each other, or previous path, or) howe2021 oscillators howe2021 functions howe2021 32the noise function howe2021 the noise function (perlin) noise is random sequence generator producing more natural ordered, harmonic succession of numbers compared to the standard random() function.// 'value' should increase slowlylet output = noise(value); // to 1noise() returns number between and howe2021 function draw(){ background(); let result = noise(num); ... num = num + .;}noise() returns number between and 1the noise function random() and noise() function setup(){ createcanvas(, );}function draw(){ background(); let = random(, width); line(, , , height);} making noise let num = ;function setup(){ createcanvas(, );}function draw(){ background(); let = noise(num) * width; line(, , , height); num = num + .;} howe2021 choose single shape of your choice, animate all of its parameters using noise()use it to make something creative howe2021 // this looks 'random', why? function setup() {createcanvas(, );background()for (let = ; < width; ++) { point(, noise() * height);} }noise() in more dimensions howe2021 more noise() how can we animate this line? howe2021 noise in multiple dimensions howe2021 crit: assignment ...
weeks only to the assignment- presentation!!start working!!! measurement:read the plantkeningzhuschool of creative mediacity university of hong kong color, weight, size, etc. light dependentsensor/photoresistor (resistance changed bylight)photoresistor gives high resistance in darkness. when it is exposed in light, its resistance drops and become goodconductor. connecting light sensor to arduino code to watch the input value with plantyou can put the light sensor near the leaf to record the lighting condition through out the day. air moisture/humidity sensor (dht11) for measuring humidity they use the humidity sensing component which has two electrodes with moisture holding substrate between them. so as the humidity changes, the conductivity of the substrate changes or the resistance between these electrodes changes. this change in resistance is measured and processed by the ic which makes it ready to be read by microcontroller. soil moisture sensorthe soil moisture sensor uses capacitance to measure dielectric permittivity of the surrounding medium. in soil, dielectric permittivity is function of the water content. the sensor creates voltage proportional to the dielectric permittivity, and therefore the water content of the soil. the sensor averages the water content over the entire length of the sensor. there is cm zone of influence with respect to the flat surface of the sensor, but it has little or no sensitivity at the extreme edges.the soil moisture sensor is used to measure the loss of moisture over time due to evaporation and plant uptake,evaluateoptimum soil moisture contents for various species of plants,monitorsoil moisture content to control irrigation in greenhouses and enhance bottle biology experiments. analog temperature sensor (tmp36) chip that tells you what the ambient temperature is.it uses the fact as temperature increases, the voltage across diode increases at known rate.by precisely amplifying the voltage change, it is easy to generate an analogsignal that is directly proportional to temperature. sounds complicated eh? the good news is all that complex calculation is doneinsidethe chip -it just spits out the temperature, ready for you to use! technical characteristics of tmp36size:to- package (about ." ." .") with three leadsprice:$. at the adafruit shoptemperature range:-40c to 150c / -40f to 302foutput range:.1v (-40c) to .0v (150c) but accuracy decreases after 125cpower supply:.7v to .5v only, . ma current drawdatasheet linear mapping from signal to temperature temp in = [(voutin mv) -]/ testing tmp36 example: grow it yourself (giy) flexible vibration sensor flexible vibration sensor (piezosensor)piezosensor is very sensitive to vibration and movement, and generate output signal.the voltage range of signal that piezosensor can produce can be from few microvolts to thousands volts, so we need large value resistor to limit current and reduce the voltage through the circuit. we get the voltage of these two pointsfor the input to arduino connect the sensor to arduino the value of this potentiometer/resistor should be very big!! >500k ohms codevoid setup(){serial.begin();}void loop(){intvalue = analogread();serial.println(value);delay();}open the serial monitor to see the number changing when you shake/flip the film accelerometeraccelerometers are devices that measure acceleration, which is the rate of change of the velocityof an object.they measure in meters per second squared (/s2) or in -forces (). single -force for us here on planet earth is equivalent to . /s2, but this does vary slightly with elevation (and will be different value on different planets due to variations in gravitational pull).accelerometers are useful for sensing vibrations in systems or for orientation applications. it also measures the xyz orientation attach it on the leaf the shape/size changes the science behind plant could be sensitive to human-touch or more.. touch: enhancing touch interaction on humans, screens, liquids, and everyday objectstouch proposes novel swept frequency capacitive sensing technique that can not only detect touch event, but also recognize complex configurations of the human hands and body. changing signal passing through the circuit between the send and the receive pins. diy touch touch circuit photo resistorresistorresistorcapacitorsdiodeinductorsarduino pin 9sensor pointput in to the mediumarduino pin a0 demo how to make water glass touch-sensitivehardware put in soil put in water3.3k resistor 1m resistor 10k resistor .8mh inductor0.01uf capacitor() 100pf talking plant lets come back to mimosa plant plant-plant conversation how to store this data?arduino to processingsimple visualizationexcelprocessinghow to transfer it to 3d visualization?we will talk about it on friday! if you want to borrow plantspikeboxemail keninzhu@cityu.edu.hkone group borrows one set at time.
dr alvaro cassinelli (thu)office: m6028email: acassine@cityu.edu.hklecture 3analog input/outputelemental sensors & actuatorsbreakout boards and grove modules hardware hacking [sm3610] what we have learned so far: digital /odigital output (example: led blinking)(in setup!) pinmode(pinled, output);...digitalwrite(pinled, high/low);digital input (example: push-button switch)(in setup!) pinmode(pinswitch, input / input_pullup);...booleanval;val= digitalread(pinswitch); reminder: if in setup() you do pinmode(pinswitch, input_pullup); then the arduino internal pull-up resistors are activated. ... and note that the logic is inverted (push = low) how to debounce? note: debouncing switch?you may have noticed problem with the toggle...the push button contact bounces for several milliseconds (can be from fraction of msto as long as 50ms) .by hardware (low pass filter) .by software: using timing() add blocking delay()... not efficient, but simplest. () use timing variable (unsigned long)keep track of the last time you detected push (pin was high, and becomes low)keep reading new value, and checking for new push, but only accept it if certain amount of time passed. in that case, update the last push time.this will work of course if sampling is fast (no blocking delay!)timing based debouncing: switch state note: the pb of periodic sampling (continuous polling). this will be solved with external interrupts digital output:use relay to control large motors or light bulbs...use buzzer and trigger an alarmdigital input: use motion detector breakout... interesting things you can already do: ... you just made motion detector alarm! .. you have both in the kit your kit()old one:this kit is lacking some interesting components, such as an rgb light strip, an lcd display, magnetic compass, an infrared rangefinder, wifi module, bluetooth module, pressure sensor, etc.if you are interested, can send you list of components for doing much more interesting things. new components added: ... and new kit with groove connectors grove beginner kit for arduino modules and standard interface for (very) rapid prototyping we can avoid the breadboard for simple work: ... of courseyou wont do that all your life! for those who feel comfortable, you can use more advanced groove modules. each one has proper library. lets make something simple, evenbefore learning more about the electronics principles or microcontroller protocols, thanks to the grove kit... note: in this case, it would not be very difficult to do it with breadboard: ) search and download library using the library manager (in tools):each breakout module have library (unless its very simple)) arduino ide can load these libraries automatically (through the libraries manager) as long asit knows where to look for.add the seeedstudiourlhere: ) most libraries come with examples or templates. after loading the library, you find the examples here: ) temperature & humidity sensor data to serial monitor note: you can code on the arduino ide (++) or other languages and environments. for instance, python or even codecraft. the code: ) temperature & humidity sensor data to oled display! (no computer) note: both the oled display and the temperature/humidity sensor use digital communication protocol. the transaction is taken care for you using the library (no need to read the digital pins and decode. more on these protocols later. digital sensors & actuatorsanalog sensors & actuatorsinterface with the arduino:digital input/output pin or analog input pin (a0-a7)but there is much more!smart sensors & actuators these can be digital or analog, but they also do some processing, from elemental to very complex (all the way to ai...)sensors: filtering, image processing, computation (ex: imu), etcactuators: motor drivers for servos, steppers...they talk with the arduinousing communication protocol (serial, i2c, can bus, etc)analog sensors / actuators the analog signal (input or output) note: continuous voltage values discretevoltage values voltagetime voltage inputinputis discrete voltage ( or5v)arduino convert this to or (code)value to output is booleanoutputis discrete voltage ( or 5v)input is continuous voltage ( to 5v) arduino convert these values into number from to 1023digitaloutput analog ...arduino does not really have analog output, but it can simulate it using pulse wave modulation(later) what can you sense? light (visible, uv, infrared)sound and ultrasoundstemperature, pressure, humidity, pollution, gases (co2, alcohol...)force, taps, weightbend and stretchmagnetic and electrical fieldsacceleration, rotationdistances... also biosensing such as: brain wavesmuscle, heart, skin conductivitythermal cameras! ... everythingyou can imagine (and more!) ...and you can use them with an arduino (remember what said about the opening to own it?)and really, thats exactly whats inside all your appliances (from your smartphone to your weight scale!)here you have an example of an unlucky wiifi: analog inputs and the arduino analog signals (continuous voltages) from sensors can be read by an arduino:use pins a0 ... a7they accept voltages from to 5v (!)... but how the arduino reads an analog value? it does not use floatvoltage is converted to number from to corresponds to 0v, and to 5vint value = analogread(a0);this process is called analog to digital conversion (adc), because continuous signal is represented by discrete series of numbers.adc capable pins so, an analog pin measures voltage... lets readthe potentiometer position recall: potentiometer is tuneable voltage divider r1 + r2 = 0v5v5v0vr1r2 remarks:dont use potentiometer with small between and 5v (safe > ohm)dont use potentiometer with too large (tens of mega ohm). it will be noisy... =!".$%&!'(!"= !".$%&!(between and 5v) = / ii = / rv = hands on... value = analogread(analogpin);reads the value from the analog pin (here a0)returns value ranged from (0v) to (5v). much more useful for calibration (thresholds): use the serial plotter tryuse apotentiometer to adjust the blinking periodof led (stroboscope) light sensors photoresistors(light dependent resistors or ldr) resistancechange with light (light-controlled potentiometer!)high resistance in darkness/ low resistance with lightabout200k (dark) to 10k (twighlight). by measuring the resistance, we could make light-activated switch... night> kohmday < kohm photoresistor (cont)arduino analog-to-digital converter pins measure voltage, not resistance!we need voltage divider (like in the potentiometer). one difference: r1 + r2 is not constant. r2 is fixed, and only r1variesbut there is problem!! we need to measure the resistance of the ldr r2r1 r2r1to arduino analog pinarduino could compute r1 using this formula, given r2 and the voltage measured...but we can just consider the voltage to switch on/off=.+ forthecurious,seenextslide pull-up or pull-down configuration for the ldr? the photoresistor has high resistance in the dark..question: can you figure out what happens to when the light gets brighteron circuit ? and on circuit ? ()() () voltage reading will increase with increasing light intensity. () voltage reading will decrease with increasing light intensity. both work... which is better for sensing light? it depends on your light conditions. if you are in the bright, your measures will be better on (). if you are in the dark, better use (). what value for the fixed resistor? dont worry too much: put something like kohm, and just read what the arduino measures to choose your threshold. ()()answer temperature dependent resistor? as expected, the circuit (voltage divider) is the same than for the photo-resistor. ...my safety color-thermometer used that plus an rgb led ok! hands on! kohm code to read the light sensor input valueobserve the values of the voltage on the serial port, for different light conditions. here the serial monitor will be more useful that the plotter, but we need to add delayso we have time to read.values are between to ... second delay what if we want to read the actual voltage (in volts?) since the conversion is linear from to to to , we can simply do:floatvoltage=. / * value;now on the serial port you can read the measurement in volts.notes:voltage is float, not an integer, so we can output fractions of volt)we use . instead of just , otherwise the compiler thinks it has to throw the decimal parts. for instance: / would give... . optoswitch, rotary encoders... other elemental optical sensors: phototransistor and photodiodesthe ldr is very slow! the photodiode and phototransistors are much faster. the photodiode is more responsive to incident light than phototransistor. phototransistor is about one hundred times more sensitive than photodiode. beam breakers ...trigger for high speed photography?...magnetic levitation? fast optical communications analog output and the arduino? arduino does not have true digital to analog converters pins. it only can output or 5v!how can we output an analog signal? arduino has special pins capable of generating alternating 0s and 1s, and you can control the length of the pulses using analogwrite(pin, value) single call to analogwrite(pin, value) will make arduino generate that sequence automatically... cool, but whats the point?? pulse wave modulation: pseudo analog signalthe trick is that the sequence is very fast, whatever is connected (motors, etc) will feel the average voltage! analogwrite(pwmpin, value)value = => 0vvalue = => 5v try: use potentiometer to dimthe led remarks: led can switch on/off very quickly too, so in fact it does not see an average... but our eyes see the average!!(if you shake your board quickly, you will see the flicker of the led. this is something you can see in most devices using led... ) code remarks:analogreadgives value from to . but the precision of analogwriteis between and .you can convert the values manually as before, or use the function map (it only work with integers) ( pwmvalue= .*value/*; ) led fading up and down remarks:the call to delay() does not affect the analog output level, but the time we stay at that level (there are levels) not needed ... here some ideas to try: what happens if you shine the led controlled by the photoresistor.. over the photoresistor?calibrate the light sensor so that you read the ambient light in lux (useful for photography)make an anemometer (speed of wind) by using the led and photoresistor as rotary encoder. then you could light it with different colors in the garden, depending on the strength of the wind. making stroboscopemaking zoetrope stroboscope: measure rotation speed of thingsuse your potentiometer-controlled led blinker to shine something rotating, while printing on the serial port the blinking frequency; start with the slowest period and turn the potentiometer until the wheel appears motionless: the speed of rotation is exactly the frequency you read on the monitor. such device is called stroboscope and is used in industry.. and in discotheques. zoetrope() photoresistor measures the rotational speed of support (moved by hand, wind, or motor) and blinks an led ( potentiometer can adjust the period so that the animation moves back and forth)or() led blinks at fixed speed, analogwritecontrols the speed of motor until it matches the led blinking (photoresistor measures the speed). this could be used to.. make zoetrope that uses the neon flickering. next week:timing & interrupts audio sampling the secret knock project other digitalelemental sensors/actuators
dr can liu (tue, thu) ofce: m7073 email: canliu@cityu.edu.hk /tsan/ sm2716 physical computing & tangible media basic components & circuit making forewords... why we need to make electronic circuits if we already have an arduino? = interfacing with an analog world - sensors (switch, light...) - actuators (lamps, speakers, motors...) power - battery, solar cell, dynamo... enhanced functions: - more memory and speed - real time clock, - wireless communication (wifi, gps, gsm) - even face recognition! => we will give the arduino eyes, voice, hands, legs... electronics : introduction electricity: the hydraulic analogy ... its all about many many droplets that move and flock together ! electricity: the hydraulic analogy ) we can extract or store energy !43we have mastered electricity exactly like water! we can guide electricity extract its energy use it for heating or work (computing is work) ) we can extract or store energy ) we can guide it where we need it: ) we can transmit information (here digital) hands-on model of the internet miraikan (museum of science, japan) serial paintings cassinelli & saakes moniac(monetary national income analogue computer) an analog hydraulic computer() ) ...and even compute things of course ! andersons digital water computer () electronics vs. electricity electricity electronics atom circuits microwave ovens use electronics to control electricity for heating up food the art of creating pluming installations to transport electricity the pipes carrying electricity are called wires or traces. electronics the whole plumbing installation is called an electronic circuit . electronic components are like homes in city, receiving water, doing something with it (taking shower?) and... as consequence affecting the rest of the people down the road. generator, voltage, current and resistance its all about sort of electrical water ... ) how to put the water in motion? an electric generator (battery, transformer or dynamo) is an electrical pump we need to generate pressure on the pipes right? water pumps battery is chemically based electric pump ) voltage: the differential pressure on the pipes we can measure the water pressure on pipe with pressure gauge... high pressure voltage is the difference of pressure of the electricity between two points on the pipe. it creates flow, or current in the cables (pipes) if it can (circuit is not open) measured in volts () ) current (and polarity) the flow of electricity is the electrical current, measured in amperes () as explained, it is generated by difference of voltage (electrical pressure) between two points in the pipes (the circuit) water pressure in is higher than (then water moves from to )+ voltage in is larger than in then, electric current flows from to - batteries and polarity: what is that? it signals the voltage difference (voltage at + is higher than -) it indicate then direction of the current: from + to (for battery, it has to be understood as + to outside it in the circuit); some components are polarized, some others not. checking our understanding... can we have voltage without current? can we have current without voltage? to maintain this difference in pressure, generator must work continuously; if there is no flow (the circuit is not closed), then the battery does not discharge refining our understanding... what are those pipes? ...but it can flow on anything else, provided that the pressure is high enough! (high voltage) materials that are good conductors , called metals large air gap can conduct too.. with billion voltsa metal always conduct resistance ... not all pipes are born equal! thin pipe limits the current: we say that the pipe resists the passage of the water. most materials (*), even metals resist electrical current (and heat in the process) resistance is measured in ohms (): material whose resistance is ohms means (by definition) that when we apply voltage of 1v to it, it lets flow of 1a through. ohms law (relation between voltage, current and resistance) if for the same voltage (pressure difference) the current is small, then the resistance is large, and vice-versa; the resistance of conductor is in fact defined as: = / ihigh voltage produces little flow => large low voltage produces big flow => small it should be clear by now: resistors are components designed to provide precise resistance. the discovery that this ratio is constant for most conductor, takes the name of ohms law do volts or amps kill you? voltage, current and resistance the flow of electrons moves the motor the flow of electrons heat the filament, and the bulb lights up the switch is like tap stopping or allowing the flow to pass the circuit schematic circuits: way to avoid insanity = series and parallel circuits: kirchhoff' laws series: components in series with each other through the wires the current flowing through them is therefore be the same! parallel: components in parallel over two points of the circuit the voltage they see must therefore be the same! 32calculate the total resistance 33calculate the total resistance an active component can control the flow of pipe depending on the flow on another one! (like valve) an active electronic component may not have constant resistance: transistor !! can you find them?electronic components: overview switches switches momentary switches (left) remain closed only when you press them, while toggle switches (right) stay in place after you press them momentary switches toggle switches remain closed only while being pressed stay closed after being pressed resistors - look inside resistors: look inside 37resistors electronic components designed to have precise values of resistances made of different materials and capacity to dissipate heat while resisting note: for the same voltage, low resistance will produce large current => large heat. therefore, low resistances can burn your hand even with 5v!! beware. 50w 38resistors turning the wheel changes the resistance: manual control of the resistance potentiometers variable resistors (manually) ... for the same voltage, you are controlling the current: dimming light! device with two terminals that only allow the flow of current in one direction onlydiodes if the pressure (voltage) is exerted in reverse (reverse polarity), it will act as an open circuit: no current. the device is polarized this is an example of component for which resistance cannot be consistently defined... 41just diode that emits light when the current circulates as with diodes, it needs tiny voltage (in the correct polarity) to start emitting/conducting easy to use and super fun for beginners! most common leds require forward operating voltage of between approximately . to . volts with forward current rating of about to ma, with to ma being the most common range.light-emitting diodes - leds transistor : an example of an active component switch controlled by the current (or voltage) => revolution!! 43power supplies source: nicolai marquardt, university college london all together: complete circuit and its water analog if you understand this (at least you are not scared anymore), then congratulations: you know everything you need to do some fun electronic plumbing! hands on words of caution avoid short circuits ( circuit with very low resistance) in short circuit we would have very large current and power, which is very dangerous, may burn components and cause fire some electronic components will be damaged by wrong polarity (think about the water mill: it may not work in reverse and breaks) you are conductor with large resistance, but 220v is enough to create current that may kill you. so, stay clear of outlets and use batteries when possible. tools: the multimeter 48measure continuity measure resistor and potentiometer simple circuit with an led led cannot handle more than or 30ma. it has forward voltage of about 2v.. so you need resistor to limit the current or it will burn! how to choose the resistor? => ohms law!danger!! mind the resistor! dont put the led directly! the handy breadboard and jumpers! simplified schematicsschematicsexample circuit: prototyping stages prototyping board (real)prototyping board (schematics) soldered printed circuit board (pcb)you can use autodesk tinkercad to draw and simulate your circuit details protoboard circuit () ()() ()() () note: the led polarity how the protoboard rows are connected how the columns (on the sides) are connected the corresponding points (, , ) from the schematic and the protoboard voltages at different points . v9 voltages between: battery terminals: 9v led terminals: 2v resistor: 7v(-) gnd(+) calculate the needed resistor value: = 7v / . = ohms 20ma is the forward current of an led2v is the operating voltage of an led leds in parallel and in series note the dierent values for the resistors (in series, it is smaller). add push-button switch to the resistor-led circuittry this: adding switch make parallel circuit with one battery, two resistors, two leds and two buttons. each button controls one led.[in-class exercise ] 9v gnd 58make circuit using one battery, one resistor, one potentiometer and one led. turn the potentiometer to dim the light. attention: how to be sure you will not burn it? add the resistor you used in previous tasks and put it in series with the potentiometer![in-class exercise ] next week arduino coding
ge1127: money & art lecture:art market lecturer: kyle chung material: david jhave johnston ming banknote from china, circa 95sum up coins philosophy religions pro armies & art all invented in same time period of human historythe axial age bc ad 96sum up coins philosophy religions pro armies & art (figurative, formal, precise) art often operates as the ideological reinforcement of power.the axial age bc ad {david graeber debtx figurative realism is discovered by individual artists, then the technique is adopted by the state for monuments and political markers. the art market supports dominant ideologies so that money can moved or be stored. so art in one sense is financial instrument, just like money. we are living in another axial age. 100then coins philosophy religions pro armies & figurative art the axial age bc ad now bitcoin computers post-humanism robot armies & 3d vr the singularity ? ada lovelace, painted in by margaret sarah carpenter.lovelace was the only legitimate child of the poet lord byron. lovelace is sometimes loosely described as the first computer programmer. like every great religion of the past we seek to find the divinity within and to express this revelation in life of glorification and the worship of god. these ancient goals we define in the metaphor of the present turn on, tune in, drop out. timothy leary new york city 1966artists drop out of financial system. the mother of all demos introduced thecomputer mouse, video conferencing, teleconferencing, hypertext, word processing, hypermedia, object addressing anddynamic file linking, bootstrapping, and acollaborative real-time editor douglas engelbart stanford research institute no really new ideas have been added since that time. 104what is money now? data. less than % of money exists as banknotes or coins. when governments print money, they change the data. 105what is art now? code. far less than % of art is exhibited. when patrons buy art, sometimes they just buy an access code. investigate: freeports. 106money is universal medium of exchange. money can convert store and transport wealth easily. without money complex markets would have been doomed. yuval harari trade can complex society operate on barter? what about exchange rates? trade can society operate on barter? exchange rate? coincidence of wants? brief history of humankind - lesson - part - dr. yuval noah harari in this axial age, massive transformations in technology create changes in perception: values change. everyone can take photos: everyone is representational artists. everyone can store memories: everyone is storyteller making movies. everyone is connected: the act of connecting is machinic. the public and private mingle. we understand that information is just data: data is free to move. borders defined by identity dissolve. money is data: our metabolisms generate energy that translates into savings. objects know what they are worth. art investigates relations and infrastructures. imaginary 3d creatures can co-exist with real ones: all images are both lies and truths. virtual money distinct from the state emerges. as does art, traded over networks, distinct from galleries. technology changes what is of value in art. 111counterfeits. counterfeits no actual specimens of song or jin paper money are known to exist. the origins of paper money in china richard von glahn (in the origins of value, pg. ) that means the images we saw of paper jiaozi earlier were probably fakes. how does that modify how you see them? counterfeit? chinese paper money song dynasty(-) counterfeit? probably not. chinese paper money song dynasty(-)it was found on the hong kong monetary authority website. counterfeits are the following images real? chinese paper money song dynasty(-) counterfeits are the following images real? chinese paper money song dynasty(-) shanzhai().dafen oil painting village several mammals including sheep, mice, cows, goats, pigs, rabbits, cats1, mule2, horse3and litter of three rats4 have been cloned by transfer of nucleus from somatic cell into an egg cell (oocyte) that has had its nucleus removed. this technology has not so far been successful in dogs because of the difficulty of maturing canine oocytesin vitro. here we describe the cloning of two afghan houndsclones what about the painting of clone? nota credit card, but credit consulting credit card. what about the painting of clone done with fake paints purchased with fake credit card? where or why does mon ey start? are its origins innate to being? how is it connected to art?
diy sensors digitalenchanting more everyday objects agendavelostatmaterialdiy bend/pressure sensormake your fluffy dollsandcushioninteractive what is data glove? data gloveis an interactive device, resembling gloveworn on the hand, which facilitates tactile sensing and fine-motion control in robotics and virtual reality . data glovesare one of several types of electromechanical devices used in haptics applications. example of diy data gloves flexisensorthe essential component in data gloves. flex sensorsare sensorsthat change in resistance depending on the amount of bend on the sensor. they convert the change in bend to electrical resistance -the more the bend, the more the resistance value.so it is actually like potentiometer! conductance : the ability for electricity to flow certain path!resistance : measure of the degree to which conductor opposes an electric current through it!highly conductive materials are of very low resistance .. wire resistance << electrical insulator is material whose internal electric charges do not flow freely !conductance = resistance = (infinitely large) most plastics, paper, wood, fabric, ceramics, etc. are insulators //23sm3727: wearables9 crafting sensors from scratch using soft conductive materialsyou can make your own data gloves under $!! pressure sensitive fabric(velostat) pressdownresistancedecreasesre sistance velostat, also known as linqstat, is packaging material made of polymeric foil (polyolefins) impregnated with carbon black to make it electrically conductive. it is used for the protection of items or devices that are susceptible to damage from electrostatic discharge. it was developed by custom materials, now part of 3m. velostatis now .. registered trademark (,,) of descoindustries inc. descoindustries purchased the assets of the 3m static control business on january , . due to its properties of changing its resistance with either flexing or pressure it is becoming popular with hobbyists for making inexpensive sensors for microcontroller experiments. one example of this is to make shoes which light up when the wearer takes step. since the resistance in the circuit is reduced when pressure is applied, this reading can indicate when weight is applied or removed from the shoes. quick experiment demo data glove //23sm3727: wearables16 sm3727: wearables pay attention to the sizes! with arduino upload the code from canvas sm3727: wearables eeontexconductive fabric fabric is conductive, nonwoven microfiber for use in -textiles as well as electromagnetic and resistive heating applications. eeontexconductive fabric is highly conductive with tunablesurface resistivity of ohm/sqto ohm/sq. digitally fabricating the fabric sensors other wearable sensitive material conductive stretchcord softpotentiometer abcabcabc enchanting more everyday objects lets try to make it using light sensor
machinelearningforartists:weektworeal numbers cartesian products vectors and vector spaces we are all familiar with the concept of cartesian coordinate system. this concept is essential for machine learning. today,wearegoingtoconsider some theoretical and practical aspects of cartesian coordinates. source: wikipedia cartesian coordinate system uses ordered -tuples of numbers to represent points on euclidean space.every point is assigned unique -tuple. it thenbecomes possible to reason about points by reasoning about the numbers that represent them. the numbers used in cartesian coordinate system are the so-called real numbers. tounderstandwhatrealnumbersare, we need to keep in mind that:there are different kinds of numbers. each kind of number is set. image source: number setsnatural numbers(): {, , , , , , }. sometimes the name natural numbers is used for the positive integers {, , ,} and the term whole numbers is used instead for the set that includes zero. integers(). the set of natural numbers together with the negatives of the positive integers. {, -, -, , , , .}rational numbers().thesetofnumbersthatcanbewrittenasa/bwhereaandbare integers, such as or -/. all natural numbers, whole numbers, and integers are also rational numbers. real numbers() (measuring numbers or measurement numbers). the set of numbers that can be expressed as decimal. all rational numbers are also real numbers. in addition, this set also includes irrational numbers such as , , etc. nor consider cartesian coordinate system that involves only one dimension ( single line). to establish such system, we needtoassignauniquenumberto every point on the line. we begin by marking an arbitrary point as the origin or zero. we thenestablish standard unit of length and divide the line into equal segments. ifwechoosetherightwardorientation as the positive axis, we can assign positive and negative integers to points. source: many points are still lacking number to represent them. we can try to assign numbers to those points using rational numbers. rational numbersarenotenough, however, becausetherearepointsonthelinethatcorrespond to no rational number. if we wish to establish one-to-one correspondence between points on the line and numbers, we need the real numbers. every real number corresponds to unique point on the line.everypointonthelinecorrespondstoauniquerealnumber. source --house of math: we have been speaking of the number line.to extend this idea to the plane and higher dimensional euclidean spaces, we need the concept of cartesian product. cartesian product thecartesian productof two setsaandb, denotedab, is the set of all ordered pairs(,)whereais inaandbis inb. (wikipedia)the idea of cartesian product can be extended to three sets , , and to denote the set of ordered triplets (,, )whereais ina,bis inb,andcisinc.we can further extend this idea in the obvious way. the cartesian product of set with itself , ,can be written as a2. we can also write a3, a4,andsoon. 2d coordinate system can be written as r2.an -dimensional coordinate system can be written as rn. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:(!"#$"#"%!"&$"'"% vectorsit is convenient to think of coordinate system using the concept of vector. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:(!"#$%&'()*+,%-$*&./%)%&#$%)(,+*$$&%.%&/+,+&).%)%(+*$"!"#$%&'$()*%&+&,-./&&' &$)& : "->?@=":" fundamental operations on vectors1.addition ofvectors2.multiplication of vectors by numbers. thenumbers are typicallyrealnumbers,butcan be any setofobjectssatisfying the mathematical definition of field. thenumbersarecalledscalars. the operationiscalledscaling. vector addition !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:(:"""" scalar multiplication set of vectors that is closed under addition and scalar multiplication is called vector space. description of one vector with reference to two different (non-colinear) vectors using scalar multiplication and vector addition. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:('"&"&&'&&& how can we think of coordinate system using vectors? the first step is to choose an arbitrary point as an origin. we only consider vectors starting from the origin. these are position vectors that represent the position of any point with respect to the origin. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:(:3af<@<ab">?@="am""nbo":"<@"=>fr>?@"@"@>"=<<".5b>@ahab>"?==>frabo>?>">@>>"ra<@"ab"@>"rtnb>"nbo"raf<@<ab">?@=. withafixedorigin, there is one-to-one correspondence between points on the plane and position vectors.the origin itself is associated with the zero vector (thevector with zeromagnitude). having fixed an origin, we pick two (non-colinear) vectors as reference system for description. these vectors are called the basisof the vector space. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:(]),,"-+, the basis vectors must be linearly independent. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:( <>=t8">>bo>@<>=t8">>bo>@<>=t8"<bo>>bo>@ the basis of vector space is the smallest number of linearly independent vectors needed to describe every point (vector) in the space. the number of vectors in any basis of vector space is its dimension. wecanthinkofthedimensionofavector space as its number of independent directions. the so-calledstandardbasisfor 2d vector space are apairofindependent vectors where each vector has component one and another zero. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:(,)(/)/"]),,&&"""""v7"""""""v7## in the usual notation, the coordinates of point are the scalar multiples of the point with respect to the standard basis. we can thus understand cartesian coordinate system as vector space together with the standardbasis. the standard basis is not the only possible basis of vector space. the same point can be described by different coordinates, depending on the chosen basis. images can be understood as vectors grayscale image is an array of pixels. every pixel is represented by real number between (black) and (white). an image of wpixels can be described as list of wreal numbers. these wreal numbers may be understood as the coordinates of the image in space of wdimensions. the image is pointin high-dimensional space (the space of all wimages),..,an elementofr . inotherwords,theimageisa vectorin in . the zero vector would then be completely black image. we can represent an image as row or column vector. we can perform vector operations on an image, including both scalar multiplication and addition. !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:( "#.;" !"#$%&'(%)&*+,"-'./'./.:(#.;" jk"#.'"
sm3809 software art studio sm3809 software art studio cityu canvas page cityu canvas page course web page howe2021 camera on during group sessions display the name you want used chungellenmandyt erry rules howe2021 on difficultythis is likely to be the most difficult class you will take at the school of creative media. it is also likely to be the most time-consuming. make sure you are taking it for the right reasons, not only for credits, or to fill graduation requirement, but because you are committed to making art with code, even though it is very difficult to do well... howe2021 on difficulty howe2021 course tools + javascriptbut actually up to you howe2021 the editor note: use the references! howe2021 observablehq.com howe2021 use this page as template to introduce yourself howe2021 when finished email me the link (with your preferred nickname) at danihowe@cityu.edu.hk howe2021 .using the p5.js editor, create 7x8 grid of squares as shown .on each mouse-click, random number of squares (at random positions) should change to circle .now link your sketch as warmup assignment, in the table-of-contents on your observable homepage .if time allows, do 2nd sketch that is your own creative interpretation warmup assignment howe2021 note: this can be done (at least) ways: .using setup() and draw() and an array, filled in mouseclicked() to hold the circle data .using setup(), draw() and noloop() without any array (the simplest) .using cell class and an array of cell objects to hold data for each grid cell other ways warmup assignment howe2021 classes/objects randomness interactivity continuous change rule-based systems stochastic processes reactivity / observablelecture topics recursion, self-similarity compression, encryption natural language art data-mapping and apis ai and machine learning git / github / versioning howe2021 assignments howe2021 object-orientation * time permitting howe2021 19object & classes howe2021 properties - name, color, size, breed behaviors - run, speak, hide, play 20objects howe2021 properties behaviors 21objectsvariables functions howe2021 22class rectangle { constructor(width, height) { // variables this.height = height; this.width = width; } // function() area() { return this.height * this.width; } } let square = new rectangle(, ); console.log(square.area()); //
smart materialiii:color-changingmaterials24// //2020smart?responsive/reactivesmart materials are the materials that can significantly alter oneor moreoftheirinherentpropertiesduetotheexternalstimuli.stress/force/pressuretemperaturemoistureelectricfieldsmagneticfieldsetc.usually,thesmartmaterialcanreturntotheoriginalstatusafterthe stimulus is removed. chromism: thermo-, photo-, electro-,etc.in chemistry, chromism is aprocess that induces change, often reversible,inthe colors ofcompounds.in most cases, chromism is based ona change in the electronstatesofmolecules.it is known that there are many natural compounds that have chromism, and many artificial compounds with specificchromism have been synthesized todate. thermochromism!"#$ thermochormic leuco dying(pigment) the sciencebehind sciencebehindspiro compounds:spiropyran/spirolactonethe most important class ofcompound used in thermochromic applications colorantescape //2020colorantescape thermochromic liquid crystal(tlc) liquid crystaldisplay? sortofliquid crystallayer thermochromic liquid crystal(tlc)thermochromic liquid crystals can be found in products as diverse as mood rings,stresstesters,warning indicators, and thermometers. change through wide spectrum of colours known as colour play commonly red, very quickly through yellow, moving through green andblue. sciencebehind photochromism sciencebehind spiro-merophotochromism. halochromisma halochromic material is material which changes color when phchangesoccur.ph: acidlevel sciencebehindwater molecules (h2o) can interact withone another to form h3 + ions and ohions.at ph of , there are equal numbers ofh3 + ions and oh ions in water, and this is called neutralsolution.to create an indicator liquid solution, we adda kind of indicator element and react with the watermolecules.andthewaterelementwillnotbreakthe balance. /lesson8#proton_transfer_animation sciencebehind..the indicators themselves are actually either weak acids or bases. when theyre dissolved in water, their molecules dissociateslightly and formions.indicators tend to be molecules containing fair number of alternating (conjugated) carbon-carbon double bonds and single bonds, such as phenolphthalein, shownbelow: sciencebehindwhen we add different chemical solutions into the indicator liquid, the balance will be broken, causing the molecules toabsorb different wavelengths of light and appear differentcolour. olchemistry.com/multim edia/chapter6/lesson8# proton_transfer_animati on24// controlling the color-changing processwith electronics control the thermochromic processwith arduino what kind of electronic components areheat sources?resistors (single direction:hot)conductive thread (single direction:hot)peltier module (two directions: hot andcool) peltiermodulesemiconductorcan quickly heat andcool how itworksa solid-state active heat pump which transfers heat from one sideof the device to the other, with consumption of electrical energy, dependingonthedirectionofthecurrent! connect it directly tothe batteryput the hot side behind your thermochromicpainting control the color/temperature witharduinoweneed1 batterybox4 aabatteries1 l298n motordriver1 peltier module attached toheat sink1arduinoof course, wires, and usbcables l298n motordriverthe l298n is dual -bridge motor driver which allows speed and direction control of two dc motors at the same time. the modulecan drive dc motors that have voltages between and 35v, with peak current up to2a.it is usually used for controllingmotorsspeeddirection in1in2you need to connect the gnd of arduino tothe negative pole of the battery box codinglogicset pin and tooutputwhen in1 receives analog signal and in2 receives analogsignalthe peltier moduleheatsdelay 6sforresetwhen in1 receives analog signal and in2 receives analogsignalthe peltier modulecoolsdelay10sforreset controlling the halochromicprocess how to controlit? the waterpump irf530transistor connect the pump toarduino connect two pumps toarduino the two pumps willmix different liquid into the ph indicative liquid solution, here the cabbagejuice. //2020ofcourseyou can dye fabrics and papers with the purple cabbage juiceto make halochromic fabric andpaper can paint an object, maybe 3d printed, with the purple cabbage juicelet them dry in theairandpump/pourthedifferentliquidonthemtomakecolorchange. you can also pump different liquid into soilto control the color offlower photochromic?leds!!!bright whiteleds!!! orservo motor + laserpointer you can also 3d print photochromaticobjects or 3d print thermochromicobjects mg-chemicals-thermochromic-printer-filaments/dp/b01m9ieppv take-hometaskplease draw something using the color-changing materials (could be thermochromic or photochoromic)please video-record the process of drawing and the demo of your drawing changing color.the drawing should be meaningful.
how to present love without saying out loud?. message and thought apart from speaking, we can use different ways to present thought and idea in our mind. for example, different ways are used to present the message " love you". the reason why we don' speak out is obvious- to remian subtle for certain occasions. and this is also applicable in other walks of our everyday life. that explains the need to use alternative methods to deliver our messages. . in different context doing the same thing in different places would get induce different reception. imagine in france, while man slap the woman' face is showing his charm and the woman will love it. however, it does not happen in other countires should this happen in the same way. this is the culture difference. meaning and expression . message and thought/ . designing for meaning / .basic semiotics- communication, signs and symbols / . communication through graphics ii. personal experience/ collective memories/ knowledge iii. receiver' sensitivity/ intelligence/ facial expression / body languageiv. context / atmosphere . media/ venue/ time / occasion, etc.................. background/ nationality/ culture ii. personal experience doing the same thing to different people also carries differnt meanings. particularly this relates to the personal experience of the receiver. the presence of certain object may recall their memory of past, provoking or evoking the motion inside their heart and delivered an unique perception. iii. body language, tone and facial expression doing the same thing or saying the same words/ sentences might have different perception with different tone, facial expresion and gestures. these indicates the real menaing behind the words. therefore, words themselves do not mean everything. the receiver will only understand it with the gesture, eye contact and body language. this is similar to the study of human reaction against incidents in psychology. they may be intentional or accidental, or sometimes comes from voluntary reaction. this allows observation by viewer to judge upon real meanings behind different words. iv. context the delivery venue is also important because we get used to certain traditional format and they form the preconception for our understanding. although sometimes exception happens, the delivery should be considerated with the context to avoid confusion. vi. media sometimes, media themselves are part of the message      . gesture . voice/ tonec. drawing and writingd. musice. sculpturef. odor, taste and touch "my place" umessage medium message mediumfor example, using poems to deliver message is different from singing song. watching movie in television is different from watching it in cinema. the media themselves are sometimes the messages. the media we encounter every day every day we get in touch with media mostly in graphical format. but they can also be voice, music or even odor. . gesture as mentioned earlier, although the gesture or body language indicate part of the meanings, the facial expression would be the ultimate determination for the meaning. it is the nal delievery for the message. . voice/ tone oice or tone are also the determination of meanings (without seeing any graphic). alternatively, they can preview or envisage the meaning behind. . drawing possibily the most common and accurate format. because we do not only rely on the words and sentence, we can judge independently by using our understanding; and without take into other consideration of the image (given by the others). . music: by comparing with sound, music has rhythm to deliver catchy lyric and melody. they are the enchancement or upgrade version for the sound. . sculpture: it contains meaning behind the craftmanship, like the staute of liberty and many statues of freedom. the statue used in awards presented to winners are sometimes reflective to the competition nature as well. . odor, taste and touch: the smell of the food indicates the location of kitchen and food sale. apart from that, we seldom use these other senses. we are always blamed for being too reliable on visual sense only. in the cases of dog and other animals, they use high range of odor sense to distinguish danger, opportunity and identity. media and message as mentioned before, the media can not be separated from message because each contains certain indiviudal meaning. (watching tv vs watching cinema screen) strong environmental signal weak environmental signalopening hours: am to 9pm opening hours: pm to ambarcoffee shop deal ! . designing for meaning visual communication is always powerful and more convincing than the other formats of communication because it is instant, direct and without ambiguity. . point() is the focus for plane. it gives eyesight location to stop. the gathering of points facilitate grouping and classification. it can also be either scattered and centralized in terms of pattern. ii. line is vectoral composition of continuous plane of points. line must give directional character without being static.line always gives the meaning of connection. iii. plane is the jointed points forming plane. the colorization of plane create perception of opaqueness and weight. iv. volume is the further addition from planes. olume gives information of the third dimension and indicate information such as depth and height of object. such presentation method is common to present real object. . frame gives boundary for the enclosed objects. it focuses the complex informatoin in an integrated "envelope", enhance organizing and processing of the content. points: embrace or form meaning the points can include or form meaning in different siutations. (shown in right diagrams) lines: the visible and invisible line means the distinction of two differnt area. it can separate thing into two. line can also be composed in discontiuous way. the components (people) form an invisible path, always indicating the desire to wait for something or someone. plane for disappearance (appearance) plane can portray silhouette of object and emphasize the outline feature without showing the details.form meaning embrace meaning volume: shadow and void apart from the volume generated from the area shape, the shadow cast by sunlight (on real objects) and the void which provides the "negative" volume are the extension and the least noticed aspect in volume. framing for the uncountables framing is the best technique to capture the uncountable objects, like the sea, wind, sky or the mass object comparing with the human dimension. that can brie abstract the mass into comprehensible and asesthetic capture. ten core principles in graphical expression there are major principles for better expression (in graphic). once again, the content is important as the rst step, however, we still can enhance them with better techniques. . contrast to contrast the object you want to present, there are many ways like position, texture (pattern), sizing or shape, etc. ii. rhythm and movement static object is sometimes boring because they are not visually exciting. apart from having dynamic shape, the rhythm can provide static objects dynamic perception. iii. balance there is misconception that balance composition equals to symmetry. instead, visual balacne is way less restricted than this. .scale . contrast . rhythm and movement . balance . proportion .center of interest . spatiality and unity . perspective . brightness, hue and saturation . context (right diagrams) the concept of balance can be illustrated by balancing the elements. like ++ = ++. iv. proportion proportion can be considered the approximation of the actual dimension. like sketching still-life, we used to estimate the scale from eyes, approximately guage the scale relations between head and body, etc. therefore, the proportion is the approximation instead of an absolute size. the invisible resultant image can be tested but not necessarily portrayed arrogantly. . center of interest centre of interest is created by using objects standing out from its background or surroundings. without the fact of being different, the centre of interest cannot be established effectively. vi. perspective perspective lines can enhance the focus of object, simpy to increase the object' expressivenss. vii. scale scale of object and its surroundings can help viewers to understand the environment and the object' relations. viii. spatiality the assortment of mass objects and single object is the option. both have to deal with spatial arragnement. ix. brightness, hue and saturation hue extends color to its surroundings, brightness and darkness increase the clarity and increase the aura respectively. saturation reduce confusion in color. . context sometimes, intentional ignorance for the context is tactic to catch the attention for the surroundings. because the contrasted character can be distinguished immediately in the mass information. . original . basic composition . visual weight . balancing heavier side sign, signi er and signi ed: icon, index and symbol: code, encoding and decoding: associaton, simile and metaphor:sign =format of noti cationsignifier =object/ actsigni ed = idea/concept icon =resemblanceindex =connected to representedsymbol =representative but not resembled code =system of symbolsencode =using system of symbolsdecode =interpretating symbols association =link with another meaningsimile =compare two with word "like" or "as"metaphor =compare one to another directly 4semiology is basically the study of signs. each sign contains its meaning. one might have confusion between many similar terms, like sign, icon, symbol, etc. although they are varied in different degrees, their ultimate goal is to allow self-initiated intrepretation. they can be simpli ed as: 1a-: sign= format of noti cation through the signi er (object that gives sign) and the signi ed (message) -: icon= resemblance to the real image of the message; index- can be different object to the real image but serve as leading transitant tool; symbol can be completely different looking to the real image (unlike with the purpose of icon). -: code contains high amount of information; encode and decode are the encription of the infomation like barcode. -: association is the system of thinking that connect the seen object to another meaning. (can be subjective and objective both); simile is the concept of "like"; metaphor is the concept of "it is...".. semiology = study of signs (while signs can be anything) . decoding = sensing signs + self- interpretating (message conveyed to brain) pros: - eye-catching- good to give warning signal- without saying to communicate cons: - requires interpretation skills- may not directly refer to subject, only signify- misunderstood if poorly designed and used3. basic semiotic- communication, signs and symbols bad examples bad examples . communication through graphic the communication through graphic can be classified in terms of direct and indirect. both can carry the same meaning but with different understanding methods. the first one is called natural and the other is called non-natural. natural meaning it is objective to most of our covered knowledge, like the sting by the bees or sickneess symptoms can indicate we are not in good condition and need further treatment. non-natural meaning the non-natural meaning also mean the trained skill, requiring the previous experience, like bell ring equals to the end of lesson. dogs also get used to this type of training. it can be created and arti cial. mechanism our understanding of indirect meaning can evolve from direct types. also, we can acquire both knowledge of natural and non-natural meanings. the major difference only lies in the latter one requires further understanding, not the common type which only involves direct meaning. conventional graphic apart from the perception due to the personal experience and existing condition (right list), our understanding is also influenced by the conventional graphic in use. in case the message is explicit (clear), even though certain details are different, they will still be understood in the same way. . directly . indirectlyways to communicate through graphic: what catches our attention (visual surprise) what we know (knowledge)what we believe (preconception)what we want (subconscious will)our emotional state (calmness)memory (experience) . directly . indirectly displacement =time and spacegrammatical =structure & sequence duality =mutiple meaningsabsolute =irreplacementconvention =imitating the observance gay happy (church) (hospital) man on reescape from re for what ? purpose?unconventional graphic when we see unconventional graphic (.. baby' expression, badly-designed signage), we have doubts and wonder what the meaning is. in order to enhance the conveying of message, text should be supplemented to illustrate the message. do' and don'ts . convention should better be followed. . absoulte digram sometimes work for exact meaningc. duality provides multiple meanings but can also be misleading.. grammatical (layer position, front and back) arrangement can be carefully designed to limit the information to single meaning.. displacement means the venue for usage. some graphics share similarity but can carry unique meanings in different locations (.. cross for hospital and church).
howe2021 sm3809 software art studio howe2021 review: recursion, image pixelscritique: code self-portraitscode-art presentationsnext-level javascriptjsonfunctions as parametersarray+object functionsthe spread operatorrule-based systems + emergencethis week howe2021 select code artist that we have not yet discussed, and *register* your artist with me create min presentation for the class further details to come...presentations presentations why art with code?live data, via apis, scraping or sensorsuser interaction / non-linearitycontinuous change / ambient poeticsquick iteration, fast prototypingsurprise: for viewer and artistshift away from authorial controlt comment on, or critique technologytelepresence (easy-remote-communication)complexity / complex systems / modelingcombinatoric approaches (., "every icon)generative algorithms / systems kata: recursive lines pick two random points on the canvas, and draw line between them using the point() your recursive function should work for any pts adapt your algorithm to do dotted line, or hand-drawn line howe2021 image with random rectsascii imagingmoving text video pixelsimage, pixels, video howe2021 jsoncallback functionsobject functionsarray functionsthe spread operator promises async / awaitajax / apisnext level javascript remember that in javascript, functions are objects. this means that we can pass them as parameters to other functions . heres an example: function dostuffthen( nextfunction ) { // do first thing // do second thing nextfunction(); // run the passed in function } the dostuffthen( ) function takes another function as parameter and then calls it. this is valid (and quite common) pattern in javascript often referred to as callback. functions as parameters we can also use anonymous (unnamed) functions with callbacks: dostuffthen( function() { console.log(done); }); function dostuffthen(callback) { // do first thing // do second thing callback(); // run the callback }callback functions often such anonymous (unnamed) functions use the newer arrow notation: dostuffthen(() => { console.log(done); }); function dostuffthen(callback) { // do first thing // do second thing callback(); // run the callback }callback functions or, if only one line, your arrow function can be shortened to: dostuffthen(() => console.log(done)); function dostuffthen(callback) { // do first thing // do second thing callback(); // run the callback }callback functions as we discussed last time, we can create object literals: let astudent = { name: 'linda', major: 'bas', local: false, age: } and arrays of object literals (common in json): let students = [ { name: 'linda', major: 'bas', local: false, age: }, { name: 'wing', major: 'ba', local: true, age: }, ... ]; * here, the individual objects are anonymous the same objects in json: { name: 'linda', major: 'bas', local: false, age: } [ { name: 'linda', major: 'bas', local: false, age: }, { name: 'wing', major: 'ba', local: true, age: }, ... ] what do you notice is different? json is simple and very common data formatit is based on javascript (thus, the json)json has types of things, which should be familiar: propertiesarraysobjectsapis/jsonjavascript object notation (json) first, properties (or variables):these are key/value pairs:"id": , "name": "david", "active ": trueseparated by commasapis/jsonjson each object in json is surrounded with { and }so we might have:{ "username": "david", "studentid": }, { "username": "feng", "studentid": }, { "username": "chiwon", "studentid": }, apis/jsonjson arrays in json are surrounded with [ and ] :[ "monday", "tuesday", "wednesday", "thursday", "friday", "saturday" ] or, an array of objects:[ { "username": "david", "studentid": "" }, { "username": "feng", "studentid": "" }, { "username": "chiwon", "studentid":"" }, ] apis/jsonjson types of things: variables, arrays, objectsvery similar to js except that keys need quotationsno classes or functions, it is data onlyand that' basically all there is to itapis/json json foreach notice that the rst parameter to foreach() is itself function, specifying what you want to do with each thing in the array.the second (optional) parameter is the indexforeach creating callbacks // separate def. for callback myarray.foreach(mycallbackfunction); // long version of anonymous callback myarray.foreach(function(element, index) { }); // arrow function for anonymous callback myarray.foreach((ele, idx) => { }); // short arrow function for callback myarray.foreach.map((, ) => one-line-js);to recap, callback functions can be created in several ways lets practicelet vehicles = [ { color: "purple", type: "minivan", registration: new date('--'), capacity: }, { color: "red", type: "station wagon", registration: new date('--'), capacity: }, { color: "blue", type: "convertible", registration: new date('--'), capacity: }, { color: "silver", type: "motorcycle", registration: new date('--'), capacity: } ]; write function, using foreach() that loops over the objects in the array and prints each vehicles typenow add boolean value to each object, called familyfriendly which is true only if the vehicle has capactity of or more.now print out the type of each vehicle, only if the vehicles capacity is greater than its array index. js object functions * note: js map() and p5 map() are not the same * let newarray = myarray.map(function(element, index) { // return value for each element in new array }); map practicelet vehicles = [ { color: "purple", type: "minivan", registration: new date('--'), capacity: }, { color: "red", type: "station wagon", registration: new date('--'), capacity: }, { color: "blue", type: "convertible", registration: new date('--'), capacity: }, { color: "silver", type: "motorcycle", registration: new date('--'), capacity: }, { ... }, ... ]; write function, using map() that returns the colors of each of the vehicles in single array.the result should be ["purple","red", blue, "silver"] filter let result = myarray.filter(function(element, index) { // return true if the item is included, else false }); reduce spread spread write function that returns the average of the elements in an arrayconsole.log(average([, , , ])); // -> now rewrite your function using array.reduce()now using the spread operator, modify your function to take any number of numbers as parameters.console.log(average(, )); // -> console.log(average(, , )); // -> console.log(average(, , , )); // -> kata # using foreach(), write function to return the intersection of two arrays (the elements in both):intersect([, , , ], [, , , , ]); // -> [, ] now modify your function to take any number of arraysintersect([, , , ], [, , ], [, ]); // -> [] intersect([, , , ], [, , ], [, ], []); // -> [] now do the same using the reduce() functionnow use reduce() and lter() together to do the samekata # view the json weather data for this week in hk at this [url]explore how the json data is organized and structuredlater we will talk about how to fetch such data yourself, but for now just copy it and add to sketch as shown ->now create simple visualization of the weather datakata # let data; function preload(){ data = loadjson('hkweather.json'); } function setup() { createcanvas(, ); textalign(center); textsize(); } function draw() { background(); text(data.city.name, , ); } array functionsforeach()map()lter()reduce()nd()some()every()// separate def. for callback let newarray = myarray.map(mycallbackfunction); // long version of anonymous callback let newarray = myarray.map(function(element, index) { }); // arrow function for anonymous callback let newarray = myarray.map((ele, idx) => { }); // short arrow function for callback let newarray = myarray.map((, ) => one-line-js); howe2021 critique: assignment 4presentations howe2021 critiquedescription: what do you see? analysis: how is it made? what does it make you think about or feel? interpretation: what is it about? what is the main idea being explored? evaluation: is it successful? does it explore the prompt in compelling, interesting or unique way howe2021 critiquei like it it is interesting agree with what others have saidstatements to avoid howe2021 rule-based systemspresentations howe2021 -systems rules are specied in string which are then expanded howe2018 an -system (or lindenmayer system) consists of:alphabet: set of allowed charactersrules: set of transformation, or input-to-output, rulesaxiom: starting string, from the alphabeta generation is one expansion of the axiom. in each generation, the output of the previous generation is further expanded, according to the set of rules.finally, the output is interpreted (.., via turtle graphics)39l-systems howe2021 cellular automata from: cellular automaton (ca) howe2018 the gol howe2021 classes of complexity uniform periodic complexity randomgenerative art is search for the 'sweet spot between order and chaos' howe2021 edited from: howe2021 john horton conway howe2021 edited from: every cell with two or three neighboring cell survives for the next generation.death. each cell with four or more neighbors dies (is removed) from overpopulation. every cell with one neighbor or none dies from isolation.birth. each empty cell adjacent to exactly three neighbors--no more, no fewer--is birth cell. it will be alive in the next generation.the rules of life the (or ) cellmoore neighborhoodexamples howe2018 the rules of life howe2018 gol: video jared tarbell, alexander reben, kjetil golid, & manolo gamboa naon emergencewhen the interaction of many entities, each following simple rules, results in the collective exhibiting complex behavior, which often cannot be predicted by looking at the individual entities
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session intimate relationship (source: beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. (.)) how friendship develops? how can people develop their relationship from strangers to intimate couples? will you feel surprised why these two persons may come together? conflicts happy moments get married dissolution of relationship what are the ways to maintain dating / couple relationship? what is love? what is the meaning of love to you? jay chou & hannah quinlivans wedding what is love? in this life we cannot do great things. we can only do small things with great love. -(mother theresa) there is only one happiness in life, to love and be loved. -(george sand) love is just word until someone comes along and gives it meaning. - (james earl jones) when saw you, was afraid to meet you when met you, was afraid to kiss you when kissed you, was afraid to love you now that love you, im afraid to lose you. (rene yasenek ) love is not matter of counting the years but making the years count. (michelle amand ) love is to love someone for who they are, who they were, and who they will be. -(chris moore) it takes moment to tell someone you love them, but it takes lifetime to prove it. (erich fromm) five major components of love care -we are concerned about the persons we love, wishing to promote their well -being and happiness, wanting the best for them, and wanting them to grow and develop in positive manner. responsibility -we behave responsibly toward those we love. we do not hurt them by acting irresponsibly. this responsibility does not come from sense of obligation; rather, it is willing sensitivity and responsiveness to the needs of others. five major components of love respect - basic component of love is respect. respect involves "looking at" someone closely enough to be aware of his or her needs and feelings; it communicates an interest in the other person and involves accepting him or her as unique individual. knowledge -we gain an awareness of the needs, values, goals, and feelings of the person we love. with this knowledge comes an understanding of the loved one. we can know people on superficial level or we can know them more deeply. for example, you may know that your friend is irritable and moody today; on deeper level you may know it is the result of studying for big test, feeling great deal of pressure, and having had too little sleep. five major components of love commitment -love involves conscious decision to be committed to the other person. to be committed means promoting the welfare, happiness and growth of the other person and is vital to the growth of trust and security in the relationship. *adapted from stinnett ., walters ., kaye ., (), relationships in marriage and family (2nd ed.), ...: macmillan publishing company. cameron, . (), playing the love market: dating, romance and real world. london: free association books. choosing mate below are number of specific qualities that some people think are important to consider in picking mate. check how important they are to you. loves you is popular with others honest is physically attractive has same religious beliefs respects your parents acts own age; not childish does not smoke is dependable willing to share the housework good personality has similar interest is in good physical healthis about same intelligence as has about same amount of schooling has ideals similar to mine is considerate of me and others has pleasant disposition, sense of humor is better than average wage earner and/or housekeeper is approved by my parents mixes well in social situations desires children is close to my age belongs to my race or ethnic group findings from study in chinese population: chang et al. () mate selection process according to the stimulus -value -role exchange principle: stimulus stage being attracted to each other physically and psychologically value stage evaluating compatibility of values role stage checking how values are expressed in role behaviors the stimulus - value - role exchange principle most couples pass through three stages before the marriage - the stimulus, value, and role stages . stimulus stage according to this exchange principle, the couple is first attracted to each other by their physical attractiveness and social qualities . this is the stimulus stage. if each partner feels that the balance sheet is about equal concerning such qualities as good looks, attractive personality, and social skills , they are more likely to be pleased with the relationship and want to continue it. if that balance sheet is very uneven, the relationship is likely to be terminated. the stimulus - value - role exchange principle value stage if the couples are evenly matched in the stimulus stage, they may proceed into the value stage and test the compatibility of their values . the more similar and mutually pleasing their values are, the stronger their attraction becomes. the stimulus - value - role exchange principle role stage if the exchange in the value stage is very positive and fairly equal, the couple may move into the role stage. the couple at this stage can see how the values are expressed in role behavior and real life situations. they observe how optimistic, dependable, or selfish each one is . if the balance sheet of mutual benefit at this stage is positive and approximately equal, the couple may choose to enter into marriage . mate selection process according to the stimulus -value -role exchange principle: value stage evaluating compatibility of valueslogically speaking if there is value conflict you have several options: .change your values .change your lovers values .change your lover fourth option is to keep your values but adjust your behaviorswhat is your choice?is it possible to change your values? how? poor mate selection omitting stages in the mate selection process their attraction for each other is so strong that they do not go through the other stages. this may lead to marriage early in the relationship without developing enough mutual understanding of the ways in which they are compatible, and result in discovering after the wedding that they have different ideas and tastes. lack of emphasis upon being the right partner the desire to find mate who is right for ourselves may mask the importance of choosing one for whom we will be the right partner. these questions should be considered: can you put yourself in your partners place and see things from his or her point of view? do you make this person feel good about himself or herself? [remember to be other -oriented!] poor mate selection playing false role and camouflaging needs one frequent difficulty in mate selection is the attempt to camouflage real needs while dating. people put on fronts and assume roles that do not reveal their real feelings. for example, two persons act self -confidently and strongly on the outside but feel uncertain, helpless and frightened on the inside may think that the other is strong person who can take care of him/her. after marriage, each finds the other is not the strong person for which he or she hopes. frustration, disappointment, and anger are bound to result. wise mate selection . know yourself what are your most important needs? do you need lots of attention and want others to admire you? what type of person do you seem most compatible with? why? why do you wish to marry? what do you expect of your spouse and of yourself? . know the prospective marriage partner what kind of person is your prospective partner? what are his/her major values? are those value compatible with your? do you feel comfortable together? wise mate selection . consider the effects of the relationship does the relationship bring out the best in both of you? can you promote each other' welfare and happiness in the future? what will the relationship be like years from now? . examine the compatibility are your needs, personalities, attitudes, experience, etc. similar or complementary, or both? if incompatibilities exist, are they ones that you can accept and live with? wise mate selection . consider the psychological comfortableness factor do you feel at ease with your prospective mate? can you be yourself and act naturally around him/her or do you feel you must maintain certain image? do you feel free to confide in each other? do you trust each other? do you feel confident that your prospective partner is committed to you? wise mate selection readings duvall, ..; miller, .. () marriage and family development. new york: harper and row. (. -) stinnet, ; waters, .; stinnet, . () relationships in marriage and family. new york: macmillan publishing house, (pp. -) the triangular theory of love this theory suggests that all loving relationships can be described according to dimensions: intimacy, passion, and decision/commitment (beebe et al., :) intimacy passiondecision/ commitment components of love . intimacy intimacy refers to close, connected, and bonded feeling in loving relationship. signs of intimacy include: - desiring to promote the welfare of the loved one. experiencing happiness with the loved ones. having high regard for the loved one. being able to count on the loved one in times of needs. mutual understanding with the loved one. sharing one' self and one' possessions with the loved one. receiving emotional support for the loved one. giving emotional support to the loved one. having intimate communication with the loved one. valuing the loved one in one' life. components of love . passion passion refers to the drives that lead to romance, physical attraction, sexual consummation, and the like in relationship. sex may form the main part of the passion but it may also include: - self-esteem affiliation with others dominance over others submission to others self-actualization components of love . decision/commitment short -term decision/commitment: one decides to love someone. long -term decision/commitment: one commits to maintain the love to someone. decision will precede commitment decision and commitment component of love do not necessarily go together. intimacy only (liking) passion only (infatuation) ()commitment only (empty love)intimacy + commitment (companionate love)intimacy + passion (romantic love) passion + commitment (fatuous love) ( ) + + consummate love ( ) sternbergs typology of love relationships kind of love relationshiplove components intimacy passion commitment non-love low low low liking high low low infatuation low high low empty love low low high romantic love high high low companionate love high low high fatuous love low high high consummate love high high high the relative emphasis of each component changes over time as an adult romantic relationship develops. liking includes only intimacy characterizes true friendships, warmth, and closeness with another but not intense passion or long -term commitment infatuated love consists solely of passion what is felt as love at first sight without the intimacy and the commitment components of love infatuated love may disappear suddenly. romantic love is combination of intimacy and passion. romantic lovers are bonded emotionally (as in liking), & physically through passionate arousal companionate love consists of intimacy (friendship) and commitment this type of love is often found in marriages in which the passion has gone out of the relationship, but deep affection & commitment remain. companionate love is generally personal relation you build with somebody you share your life with, but with no sexual or physical desire . it is stronger than friendship because of the extra element of commitment. ??? platonic love ???? fatuous love has the passion and the commitment components but not the intimacy component. this type of love can be exemplified by whirlwind courtship and marriage in which commitment is motivated largely by passion, without the stabilizing influence of intimacy. consummate love includes all three components intimacy, passion and commitment. is the most complete form of love, it represents the ideal love relationship for which many people strive but which apparently few achieve. references corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole. sternberg, . . () triangular theory of love. psychological review , , -. sternberg, . . () the triangle of love: intimacy, passion, commitment , basic books what is your own pattern of triangular love? primary and secondary love styles eros (love at first sight) storge (love with respect and trust)ludus (love as game)mania obsessive, jealous love style with attempts to force affection from partner pragma shopping for suitable mateagape to give with selfless love for partners benefits rules of dating the following rules are endorsed as the most important ones to apply to the opposite sex partner in the dating relationship. address the other by first name. respect the other' privacy. show mutual trust. be punctual. look the other person in the eye during conversation. don' criticise each other in public. stand up for the other person in his/her absence.keep confidence. show interest in each other' daily activities. be faithful to one other. share news of success. give birthday cards and presents. be tolerant of each other' friends. repay debts, favours & compliments. surprise each other with gifts. boys should initiate date. love attitude ( -is-the-color -wheel -model -of-love -.htm#vdtrn ) in john lee used the color wheel to describe his theory of love, in his book, the colors of love . primary love styles are eros, ludos and storge secondary love styles mix the primary styles mixing eros with ludos creates mania, or obsessive love, that can feel like roller -coaster ride and include bouts of jealousy and possessiveness. mixing ludos with storge creates pragma, which is realistic and practical love, like when partners are chosen because they're "good on paper." and mixing eros with storge creates agape, which is selfless love, often experienced as spiritual love. clyde and susan hendrick continued to research love styles and developed the love attitude scales, test you can take to determine your love style, and the love style of your relationship. video: what is the color wheel model of love? -is-the-color -wheel -model -of-love -.htm#vdtrn love attitude what kind of lover are you? . eros: beauty and sexuality has an idealized image of beauty that is unattainable in reality. it is highly sensual style of love. erotic lovers choose their lovers by intuition or "chemistry." they are more likely to say they fell in love at first sight than those of other love styles. the advantage of erotic love is the sentimentality of it. it is very relaxing to the person doing it. the disadvantage is the inevitability of the decay in attraction, and the danger of living in fantasy world. consequently, they often feel unfulfilled. . ludus : entertainment and excitement ludic lovers are players. love is experienced as game, as fun. ludic lover is self -controlled, always aware of the need to manage love rather than allow it to be in control. they are more interested in quantity than quality of relationships. sexual fidelity is not important. they regard sex as conquest or sport, and they engage in relationships because they see them as challenge. love attitude what kind of lover are you? . storge : peaceful and slow storgic lovers are friends first. they dont set out to find lovers but to establish companionable relationship. storgic lovers choose their mates based on homogamy, and sometimes cannot pinpoint the moment that friendship turned to love. storgic lovers want their significant others to also be their best friends. love is gradual process of unfolding thoughts and feelings. the advantage of storgic love is the level of intimacy between the partners. the disadvantage is the lack of passion . pragma: practical and traditional pragmatic lovers think rationally and realistically about their expectations in partner, and select them via comparison shopping or shopping -list love. they want compatibility in their partner and also concerned with social qualifications. pragmatic lovers want to find value in their partners, and ultimately want to work with their partner to reach common goal. the advantage of pragmatic love is practicality and realism. the disadvantage is un -demonstrativeness and lack of emotion. love attitude what kind of lover are you? . mania: elation and depression manic lovers often have low self -esteem, and place much importance on their relationship. manic lovers speak of their partners in possessives and superlatives, and feel they "need" their partners. they often experience extreme highs and extreme lows. manic lovers will avoid committing infidelity if they fear discovery. they view marriage as ownership, and children as either competition or substitute for their lover. sex is reassurance of love. manic lovers are often anxious or insecure, and can be extremely jealous. they love intensely and worries intensely about losing the lover. the advantage of manic love is intensity. the disadvantages include jealousy, possessiveness, and insatiability. love attitude what kind of lover are you? . agape: compassionate and selfless agapic love is self -sacrificing, all -encompassing love. agapic lovers are often spiritual or religious people. agapic lovers view their partners as blessings, and wish to take care of them. they sometimes love even people with whom they have no close ties. agapic lovers will remain faithful to their partners to avoid causing them pain, and will often wait patiently for their partners after break -up. love is spiritual, and that they offer without concern for personal reward or gain. the advantage of agapic love is its generosity. disadvantage is that it can induce feelings of guilt or incompetence in partner. (beebe et al., : -; greenberg, : -) word of caution we must constantly work at understanding, building, and rebuilding our loving relationships. relationships are constructions, and they decay over time if they are not maintained and improved. we cannot expect relationship simple to take care of itself, any more than we can expect that of building. rather, we must take responsibility for making our relationships the best they can be. authentic love love means that am coming to know the person love. am aware of the many facets of the other person not just the beautiful side but also the limitations, inconsistencies, and flaws . have an awareness of the others feeling and thought , and experience something of the depth of that person. can penetrate masks and roles and see the other person on deeper level . (corey & corey, :) love also entails making myself known to the other person. meaningful self-disclosure is essential to establishing loving relationships, especially revealing the deeper facets of ourselves . (corey & corey, :) authentic love love means that care about the welfare of the person loved and actively demonstrate concern for the other. if care about you, am concerned about your growth, and hope you will become all that you can be. we have an interest in each others welfare and desire to see that the other person is fulfilled. (corey & corey, :) authentic love love means having respect for the dignity of the person love. if love you, can see you as separate person, with your own values and thoughts and feelings , and do not insist that you surrender your identity and conform to an image of what expect you to be for me . am not threatened by your ability to stand alone and to be who you are . avoid treating you as an object or using you primarily to gratify my needs . (corey & corey, :) authentic love love means having responsibility towards the person love but not responsibility for that person. if love you, am responsive to what you need. am aware that what am and what do affects you; am concerned about your happiness and your sadness . have the realization that have the capacity to hurt or neglect you . (corey & corey, :) true love includes sense of responsibility and accepting the other person as he or she is, with all strengths and weaknesses. if you like only the best things in person, that is not love . (nhat hanh, :85in corey & corey, :) authentic love implies accepting another persons weaknesses and bringing patience and understanding to help the person make significant life changes . (corey & corey, :) authentic love love can lead to grow for the both the person love and me. if love you, am growing as result of my love for you. you encourage me to become more fully what might be, and my loving enhances your being as well. we each grow as result of caring and being cared for ; we each share in an enriching experience that does not detract from our being. (corey & corey, :) authentic love love means making commitment to the person love. this means that the people involved have invested in their future together and that they are willing to stay with each other in times of crisis and conflict . commitment entails willingness to stay with each other in times of pain, uncertainty, struggle, and despair , as well as in times of calm and enjoyment. major component of commitment is to give honest feedback to the one we love, even though it may be difficult to give and to hear. (corey & corey, :) authentic love love means that am vulnerable . love involves allowing you to matter to me in spite of my fear of losing you. you have capacity to hurt me as much as am capable of hurting you . there are no guarantees that our love will endure . my love for you implies that want to spend time with you and share meaningful aspects of my life with you. (corey & corey, :) authentic love love means trusting the person you love . if love you, trust you will accept my caring and my love and that you will not deliberately hurt me . trust that you will find me lovable and that you want to be with me. trust the reciprocal nature of our love. if we trust each other, we are willing to be open to each other and can shed masks and pretenses and reveal our true selves . (corey & corey, :) love means trusting yourself . in relationships great deal is made of trusting the person you love, yet the ability to trust yourself is equally important. indeed, if your trust in yourself wavers, you may not be able to believe or trust in the love another wants to share with you . (corey & corey, :) authentic love love allows for imperfection . authentic love does not imply perfect state of happiness. (corey & corey, :) love is freely given . my love for you is not contingent on whether you fulfill my expectations of you. (corey & corey, :) authentic love does not mean ill love you when you become perfect or when you become what expect you to become. (corey & corey, :) authentic love is not given with strings attached. there is unconditional quality about love. (corey & corey, :) authentic love love is expansive . if love you, encourage you to reach out and develop other relationships. only false love cements one person to another in such way that he or she is not given room to have other meaningful relationships . (corey & corey, :) love means that although want you in my life, am capable of functioning without you . if life is meaningless without you, it will put lot of demands on you to be there for me. if love you and you leave, will experience great loss, but will not be destroyed . if am overly dependent on you for my meaning and my survival, am not free to challenge our relationship , and this is hardly healthy sign of love . (corey & corey, :) authentic love love means identifying with the person love. if love you, can empathize with you, see the world through your eyes, and identify with you. (corey & corey, :) love involves seeing the potential within the person love. if love you, am able to see you as the person you can become, while still accepting who you are now. (corey & corey, :) love means letting go of the illusion of total control of ourselves, others, and our environment. the more strive for complete control, the more out of control am. loving implies surrender of control and being open to lifes events . it implies the capacity to be surprised. (corey & corey, :) how do know if he is my mr. right or she is my miss right? compatible or incompatibility relationships consider the relationships within two sets of gears: the first set, the two gears are precisely matched to each other in the second set, the two gears are badly mismatched. when two gears are compatible, their relationship works and they operate together in smooth, synchronized manner when two gears are incompatible, their relationship does not work and instead of meshing together and integrating their respective movements without necessary friction, they grind and grate against each other, producing heat, discordant noise, mutual wear and tear two elements most people associate with incompatible relationships the partners interfere with each other as each performs his or her daily activities and attempts to satisfy personal needs and achieve personal goals. the partners interference not only sometimes results in blocking achievement of the individuals aims and objectives but also often results in negative emotion in compatible relationships, the partners facilitate the satisfaction of each others needs and help them achieve each others goals compatible relationship share functional relationships relationship compatibility relationship compatibility refers to the ratio of facilitating to interfering events in the partners interaction facilitation = relationship compatibility interference facilitation usually is associated with positive feelings and relationship satisfaction, where as interference is associated with dissatisfaction and the experience of negative emotions and feelings references to know more about sociogram: moreno, . . (). who shall survive? new approach to the problem of human interrelations.. washington: nervous and mental disease pub. co.. to know more about poem of friendship: best friends forever, best friend poem. (..). family friend poems -real poems, real people, real life. retrieved february , , from -friends - forever -#ixzz1kwdsi6bj to know more about gender role research and gender role: broverman, . ., vogel, . ., broverman, . ., clarkson, . ., & rosenkrantz, . . (). sex -role stereotypes: current appraisal. the journal of social issues, (), -. feldman, . . (). ch . sexuality and gender. understanding psychology (10thed., pp. -). new york: mcgraw -hill. references to know more about nonverbal communication: johnson, . . (). ch . expressing your feelings nonverbally. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self -actualization (9thed., pp. -). boston: pearson & . navarro, ., & karlins, . (). what every body is saying: an ex -fbi agent' guide to speed -reading people. new york, ny: collins living. to know more about listening skills: atwater, . ( ). hear you: listening skills handbook (rev. ed.). new york: walker. johnson, . . (). ch . helpful listening and responding. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self -actualization (10th ed., pp. -). upper saddle river, ..: pearson. nichols, . . (). the lost art of listening: how learning to listen can improve relationships (2nd ed.). new york: guilford press. to know more about giving and receiving feedback: koopmans, . (). feedback: mastering the art of giving and receiving feedback . zaltbommel: thema. references to know more about communication barriers & dealing with communication barriers: rogers, . (). on becoming person: therapists view of psychotherapy. boston: houghton mifflin. corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole. to know more about other -oriented communication: beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. other readings ben-shahar, tal. (). happier: learn the secrets to daily joy and lasting fulfillment. new york: the mcgraw -hill companies. ben-shahar, tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life. new york: mcgraw -hill. greenberg, . . (). comprehensive stress management. new york: mcgraw - hill. (pp. -) references to know more about love attitude: hendrick,., hendrick, . ., & dicke, . (). the love attitudes scale - short form. in . . simmons & . lehmann. (). tools for strengths -based assessment and evaluation . new york: springer publishing com. (pp. -) hendrick,., hendrick, . ., & dicke, . (). the love attitudes scale: short form . journal of social and personal relationships , (), -. graham, . . (). measuring love in romantic relationships: meta - analysis. journal of social and personal relationships , (), -. to know more about authentic love and coping with ending long -term relationship: corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (9thedition). australia: brooks/cole. corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole.
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session : stress management definition of stress psychological and physical/physiological response of the body that occurs whenever we must adapt to changing conditions , whether those conditions be real or perceived the inability to cope with perceived threat (real or imaged ) to ones mental, physical, emotional, and spiritual wellbeing , which results in series of physiological responses and adaptations . (seaward, :) the important word to emphasize here is perceived (the interpretation) , for what might seem to be threat to one person may not even merit second thought to another individual . (seaward, :) sources of stress environmental sources of stress many of the stresses of daily life come from external sources. ..: you may have difficulty arranging your work schedule to fit your school schedule, and this can be compounded by the external demands of friends and family and other social commitments. ..: financial problems and the pressure to work to support yourself (and perhaps your family too) make being student demanding task. ..: test anxiety ..: illness, exposure to environmental pollutants, improper diet, lack of exercise, poor sleeping habits ..: racism, oppression and discrimination do you know how stress you are at the moment? .stress symptoms inventory .student stress scale interpretation of stress symptoms scale your score your comparative rating - stress at level ower than average you may find your life boring without too much motivation in your work or study. - stress at moderate level although you may find it stressful in your daily -life, you can still feel good and happy with your current situation because you cope very well with stress. and above stress at level much higher than average you are very stressful. maybe, your coping methods do not work well. you have to be alert to your stress level, and need to pay more attention on your stress management and your health conditions . student stress scale individuals with scores of or higher have high health risk. individuals scoring between individuals with scores of and points have about - chance of serious health change within two years. individuals with scores below have -in- chance of serious health change. type of stress eustress : good stress; any stressor that motivates an individual towards an optimal level of performance or health (seaward, :) stress that results in positive consequences such as enhanced performance or personal growth (greenberg, :) the optimal amount of stress which helps promote health and growth . (it is motivating and inspiring .) not all stress is bad for you. when stress serves as positive motivation , it is considered beneficial. stress & performance just like the strings of guitar, if the strings are too loose, they cant make music, too tight, they break down. the yerkes -dodson curve: stress can be productive & have positive consequence increase performance. stress can also have negative consequences interfere with performance. (yerkes & dodson, in greenberg, :) according to the inverted - shaped theory , everybody has his/her own optimal stress level. when stress is too low , we may become bored , lack of concentration and motivation result in poor performance . when stress is too high , we may be depressed and out of control poor performance at the moderate level of stress, there is zone of optimal performance. the optimal level of stress performance stress level zone of best performance low stress high stress lack motivation depressed eustress distress effects of stress overstress will make you sick . brain fatigue, aches and pains, crying spells, depression, anxiety attacks, sleep disturbance. gastrointestina tract ulcer, cramps ( ) ) and diarrhea, colitis ( ), irritable bowel. glandular system thyroid gland malfunction. cardiovascular high blood pressure, heart attack, abnormal heart beat, stroke. skin itchy skin rashes. immune system decreased resistance to infections and neoplasm (cancer). (make reference to greenberg, : -; corey & corey, :) stress response : when we perceived under threat, our body reacts it for preparing to fight or flight: - rapid breathing increased sweating sudden rush of strength slowed digestion increased heart rate and blood pressure. (make reference to blonna, :, .) what do you think is/are the factors to affect our stress level and coping methods? personality locus of control external internal locus of control : sense of who or what is in control of ones life (seaward, :) refers to the extent to which individuals believe that they can control events that affect them. internal and external locus of control is not so much typology but rather continuum : person can fall anywhere along that continuum from external at one end to internal at the other. most people are clustered somewhere in the middle. locus of control external internal external locus of control certain people (externals) feel that the outcome of their efforts is controlled by forces and events external to themselves, such as chance, fate, luck, powerful figures in authority, or other external circumstances internal locus of control internals are convinced that control is an internal matter related to their own efforts and talents. they believe that their behavior is guided by their personal decisions and efforts. locus of control external internal internal locus of control : believe they are the controllers of their own fate. believe that the outcomes in their lives stem mainly from internal factors, for .., their own effort, ability, decisions. in stressful situation, they believe they can have significant effect on the results. they tend to act in ways to take control of events and experience less stress . locus of control external internal external locus of control see themselves as pawns of fate. believe that the outcomes in their lives are determined largely by external causes, .., fate, luck, actions of others. less likely to take action to control their lives, since they believe such action to be fruitless in stressful situation, they are more likely to be passive and defensive . rather than doing something to reduce the stress, they acquiesce. more likely to feel helpless and experience stress . locus of control external internal those with high internal locus of control have better control of their behaviour they are more likely to assume that their efforts will be successful. they are more active in seeking information and knowledge concerning their situation than do externals . (make reference to greenberge, : -) locus of control external internal people with an internal locus of control take responsibility for their actions; those with an external locus of control place responsibility on external factors like luck or the weather; the latter is associated with the helpless -hopeless personality, stress -prone personality. (seaward, :) type & type behavior cardiologists friedman & rosenman (, in smith, :) proposed that behavior patterns of speed, impatience, perfectionism, drivenness, and hostility increased individuals vulnerability to heart disease and they later labeled this constellation of traits associated with coronary disease type behavior , and distinguished it from an oppositional counterpart termed type behavior, reflecting relaxed, easy-going, slower -paced lifestyle . characteristics of type people type ' are always moving, walking and eating rapidly, feel impatient with the rate at which most events take place, strive to think or do two or more things simultaneously, cannot cope with leisure time and are obsessed with numbers, success is measured in terms of how much of everything they acquired. characteristics of type people type ' never suffer from sense of time urgency with its accompanying impatience, feel no need to display or discuss either their achievement or accomplishments unless such exposure is demanded by the situation, play for fun and relaxation, rather than to exhibit their superiority at any cost, and can relax without guilt. (make reference to blonna, : -, ) type personality & heart disease the type personality, which involves self - imposed stress and intense reactions to stress. type people were found to be three times more likely to experience coronary heart disease type people were much less likely to develop heart disease. type behaviour is characterized by feeling chronic sense of time urgency and by an excessive competitive drive . type individual is " aggressively involved in chronic, incessant (constant) struggle to achieve more and more in less and less time ." type behavior undermine life quality type behavior undermines subjective wellbeing and erodes ones capacity to enjoy life. type behavior - continuous struggle, and unremitting attempt to accomplish or achieve more and more things or participate in more and more events in less and less time, frequently in the face of opposition real or imagined from other persons . (friedman & ulmer, in smith, :) social support: protective factor social support is seen to be crucial. some stress experts envision stress occurring when there is not enough social support available to respond to the event effectively . (greenberg, :) having group of family members or close friends in regular contact has positive effect ; while the loner is much more likely to suffer from ill health both physically and mentally. social support : protective factor social support is belonging , being accepted , being loved , or being needed . it is having people you can really talk to, to whom you feel close, and with whom you share your joys, stressors, problems, apprehensions, and love. social support comes in many different forms: . tangible support (.., $); . emotional support (.., love or caring concern); and . informational support (.., facts and advice). (greenberg, :) (also make reference to blonna, :) social support: stress buffer theory thestress buffer theory suggests that social support helps after stressor is encountered to help prevent that stressor from resulting in negative consequences. (greenberg, :) social support may take many forms. .., it could be emotional support to help you feel better about yourself or about the event as you cope with it, or it could take the form of financial assistance . in any case, social support helps you cope with the event and therefore decreases your level of stress . (greenberg, :) the value of human touch benefit of social support: human touch touching, whether skin to skin or through clothing, is primary mode of communication and an integral form of social support. being touched, whether through passionate embrace, peck on the cheek, cuff on the head or shoulder, holding hands, giving message, or tousle of the hair, communicates love, intimacy, value, and worth as human being. touch in sense reinforces our perceived social support (blonna, :) your suggested coping methods which are effective and commonly practice. .changing daily schedule .listening to music .sleeping .eating .doing sports .hiking .talking to good or close friend .reading books on positive psychology strategies to reduce stress healthy life style, balanced diet, physical exercise learn to be less type , more like type cognitive restructuring (correct cognitive errors be internals) increase social support time management, money management meditation, deep relaxation yoga, therapeutic massage, assertiveness training, journal writing, spiritual / life meaning, etc. cognitive behavioral therapy 3ms agnifying , inimizing & making up (fabricating) (tal ben -shahar )recall cognitive behavioral therapy: 3ms magnifying : exaggerating something that happens. over generalization : catastrophizing failure seeing it as the end of the world ; all - or - nothing : either straight or complete failure minimizing : tunnel vision : dismiss/negate the positives, does not see the greater picture but focus on small spot ( zoom in zoom out to see the larger/whole picture to see the positive as well) making up : create something from nothing personalize it or blame oneself . (its my fault. im not behaving appropriately instead of rationally saying this guy is abusive. im out of here.). it can also be the other way around . .., just did poorly on an exam, and blame my boyfriend/girlfriend for it . (tal ben -shahar, harvard positive psychology lecture : )recall positive psychology: shift 3ms 3ps ermission to be human focusing on the ositive erspective shifting (tal ben -shahar, harvard positive psychology lecture : )recall positive psychology: shift 3ms 3ps if experience difficult experience, go through hard time. the first step is to give myself permission and that would mean accepting of the emotion, accepting that is difficult, accepting reality . something just happened, there is nothing can do about but what has just happened can change is perhaps my interpretation of what has happened cognitively reframing, interpreting the situation as positive and that would be benefit finder . if am going through very difficult time, perhaps look at it through the buddhist perspective and say well, this is tool for growth . this will help me understand myself as well as others. seeing the opportunity in failure . (tal ben -shahar, harvard positive psychology lecture : )recall what is your interpretation of this picture? one of tal ben -shahars happiness tips keep in mind that happiness is mostly dependent on our state of mind, not on our status or the state of our bank account . barring extreme circumstances, our level of well being is determined by what we choose to focus on (the full or the empty part of the glass) and by our interpretation of external events . for example, do we view failure as catastrophic, or do we see it as learning opportunity? (goldberg, )recall eating banana when stressed or depressed will help you as the banana proteins when eaten are converted in to serotonin which are known to make you relax, improve your mood and generally make you feel happier . bananas: combining the amino acid ( ) tryptophane ( ) with carbohydrates ( ) as well as calcium and magnesium can help the brain relax sleep better . natural treatment for depression high fiber cereal, containing magnesium natural sedative lily and lotus seeds help relax , and sleep better natural treatment for depression lotus seeds lily physical exercise = powerful psychiatric drugs aerobic exercise has similar effect to some of our most powerful psychiatric drugs!! michael babyak at duke medical school what he did was bring patients with major depression and randomly divided them into groups. 1stgroup was the exercise group ( mins of moderate difficulty aerobic physical exercise (walking/jogging), times/week); 2ndgroup was put on medication ; 3rdgroup was put on medication and exercise . months later , which one will be the most effective in stress reduction? physical exercise six important criteria : . the activity must be done for at least an hour per day . the activity must be done on regular basis . the activity must have base of months of training . the activity must be well liked by the person doing it . the activity must be noncompetitive . the activity must be done alone, or perhaps with one other person (seaward, : -) journal writing expressing oneself through journal writing is highly effective means to help cope with stress . journal writing: - -provides profound internal vision and enhance the self-awareness process in times of stress. -initiates the communication of self-reflection between the mind and the soul, the necessary first step in the resolution and closure of perceived stress. -is vehicle for meditation . as technique to clear the mind of thoughts (by either focusing on one particular theme or jotting down random thoughts as they surface and circulate through the conscious mind), calming effect takes place as thoughts and feelings are transferred from the mind to the written page. (seaward, :) journal writing research suggests that journal writing is not only good for the soul, as mode of catharsis to express the full range of emotions, but has proven to be good for the body as well . (seaward, :) journal writing: -may serve as an emotional catharsis by getting out on paper the toxic thoughts roaming through ones head -allows the release of thought, feelings, and perceptions that liberates the mind and softens or expands the walls of the ego - writing mediation process because as old thoughts are permitted to leave, the empty space they once occupied allows for expanded awareness of ones internal landscape as well as expanded depth of thought. increased awareness opens the door for increased understanding of ourselves in our many environments. (seaward, :) journal writing writing down personal thoughts gives one permission to let them go , no longer thinking about them with the intensity that may have cluttered the mind and drained energy. (seaward, :) release of thoughts and feelings may also act as personal confession, an honest confrontation of ones behaviors. (seaward, :) and this is an initial step toward healing both ones internal relationship and personal relationships with others . (seaward, :) time management the prioritization, scheduling , and execution of daily responsibilities to level of personal satisfaction. effective time management does not mean you have more time; it means you make better use of the time you have. (seaward, :) time - management techniques: prioritization prioritization ranking responsibilities and tasks in their order of importance. . the abc rank - order method = the highest -priority activities (must do immediately) = second -priority activities (anything that is not or but should do soon) = low -priority tasks or things you would like to do (can wait to do) (seaward, :) time - management techniques: prioritization . importance - versus - urgent methods divide your responsibilities for the week into the boxes. attention and efforts should go toward items listed in box because they are high in both importance and urgency . next your efforts should go towards box ii because these responsibilities are important but not quite urgent , followed by those items listed in box iii (urgent but not important) , and finally those in box iv (not urgent nor important) . time management matrix the time management technique the jar of life * the jar of life conclusion: the serenity prayer god grant me the serenity to accept the things cannot change; courage to change the things can; and wisdom to know the difference. --reinhold niebuhr (american theologian ( ). ) conclusion whatever (difficult, painful situations) youre going through, this too shall pass! do believe in your strengths and resilience. you got the ability to rebound! references ben-shahar, tal. (). happier: learn the secrets to daily joy and lasting fulfillment . new york: mcgraw -hill. ben-shahar, tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life . new york: mcgraw -hill. blonna, . (). coping with stress in changing world (5th ed.) . new york: the mcgraw -hill com. inc. cheung, . . (). an overview of psychopathology in hong kong with special reference to somatic presentation. in . . tseng & . . . wu (eds.), chinese culture and mental health (pp. -). orlando: academic press. cheung, . . (). facts and myths about somatization among the chinese. in . . lin, . . tseng, & . . yeh (eds.), chinese societies and mental health (pp. -). hong kong: oxford university press. cooke, anne (ed.) (). understanding psychosis and schizophrenia . ..: british psychological society. (retrieved on --, from - files/division%20of%20clinical%20psychology/public/understanding_psychosis -_final_19th_nov_2014.pdf) references goldberg, . (, march ). harvards crowded course to happiness: positive psychology draws students in droves, the boston globe. (retrieved september , , from o_happiness/) corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole. greenberg, . . (). comprehensive stress management. new york : mcgraw -hill. kleinman, . (). depression, somatization and the new cross -cultural psychiatry. social science & medicine , , -. kleinman, . (). patients and healers in the context of culture: an exploration of the borderland between anthropology, medicine and psychiatry . berkeley: university of california press. kleinman, . (). neurasthenia and depression: study of somatization and culture in china. culture, medicine and psychiatry , (), -. new economics foundation (). five ways to wellbeing, in new economics foundation. ( retrieved on --, from -ways -to-well-being) references nolen -hoeksema, . (). abnormal psychology (5th ed.). new york: mcgraw -hill. seaward, . . (). managing stress: principles and strategies for health and welling. boston: jones and bartlett publisher. seaward, . . (). managing stress: principles and strategies for health and well -being . (7thedition). burlington, mass.: jones & bartlett learning. seligman, ... (). authentic happiness. new york : free press. seligman, ... (). authentic happiness. new york : free press. smith, . . & bryant, . . (). are we having fun yet? savoring. type behavior, and vacation enjoyment. international journal of wellbeing, (), -. smith, manuel . (). when say no, feel guilty: how to cope --using the skills of systematic assertive therapy . new york: bantam book. wexler, .. (). the prism workbook program for innovative self - management. new york: norton. () () : (
howe2021 sm3809 software art studio howe2021 review: recursion, fractals, continuous changecode artist presentationscritique: recursion (#)images and pixelsthis week howe2021 select code artist that we have not yet discussed, and *register* your artist with me create min presentation for the class further details to come...presentations presentations howe2021 critiquedescription: what do you see? analysis: how is it made? what does it make you think about or feel? interpretation: what is it about? what is the main idea being explored? evaluation: is it successful? does it explore the prompt in compelling, interesting or unique way howe2021 critiquei like it it is interesting agree with what others have saidstatements to avoid howe2021 ...crit: assignment recursion image by jan misset for droste cacaa, fractalfraktal /ri-kr-zhn/ . fractal is repeating patterns that is self-similar across different scales. fractals are created by repeating simple process over and over in feedback loop. driven by recursion, fractals patterns are often familiar, since nature is full of fractals. adapted from fractalfoundation.org/resources/what-are-fractals/ fractals the sierpinski triangle sierpinski triangle koch curve koch snowflake fractal tree example: fractal tree draw branch. from its end, rotate right and draw shorter branch. then rotate left and do the same. repeat for the two new branches... affine transformationstranslate() > move left/right or up/down rotate() > rotate around the -axis ( 2d) scale() > make bigger or smallerfunctions that (essentially) move the 'graph paper': affine transformspush() > 'save' the state of the coordinate system, so that we can return to it later pop() > go back to the last 'saved' state for the coordinate system these two are often used as well: fractal tree now lets use noise() to give it some natural motion... the randomseed() function code kata: mondrian triangle splittinga naive approach to splitting triangle with pointsa,, andc: pick one of the three points for the start of the splitting line. let' pick pointa. calculate the middle of the side opposing pointa, and call it pointd. draw line from pointato pointd, splitting the triangle into two new triangles. adb triangle splittinga naive approach to splitting triangle with pointsa,, andc: pick one of the three points for the start of the splitting line. let' pick pointa. calculate the middle of the side opposing pointa, and call it pointd. draw line from pointato pointd, splitting the triangle into two new triangles. ab clerp() between and triangle splitting code kata: recursive lines pick two random points on the canvas, and draw line between them using the point() your recursive function should work for any pts adapt your algorithm to do dotted line, or hand-drawn line code kata: recursive lines ii now adapt your function to create terrain similar to what is shown below (from the reading) step : pick random point step : split into rectangles step : split into rectangles step : split into rectangles step : split into rectangles step : for each, repeat the process code kata: fibonacci computer the fibonacci sequence, where each number is the sum of the two preceding ones, starting from and , , , , , , , , , , , , 144fib() = fib() = fib() = + = fib() = + = fib() = + = fib() = + = fib() = + = fib() = + = fib() = + = ... code kata: fibonacci write the (recursive) function to compute the nth number in the fibonacci sequencefunction fib() { ?? }fib() = fib() = fib() = fib() = fib() = fib() = fib() = fib() = fib() = ... fib() = code kata: fibonacci tiling create tiling where each square has sides with lengths following the sequence. sides of the largest rectangle should have ratio: . to (golden rectangle) code kata: fibonacci spiral also called the golden spiral... howe2021 ... crit: assignment howe2021 images: pixel-by-pixel exercise: self-portrait & the abstract face draw an image via pixels then use the pixel data to create non-realistic rendering of the image consider color, shape, depth, and motion (*video ok, but no interaction/webcam) how abstract can you make the portrait, while still recognizable as human figure everything is self-portrait. diary. your whole drug historys in strand of your hair. your fingernails. the forensic details. the lining of your stomach is document. the calluses on your hand tell all your secrets. your teeth give you away. your accent. the wrinkles around your mouth and eyes. everything you do shows your hand.chuck palahniuk self-portrait & the abstract face self-portrait & the abstract face kata: self-portrait & the abstract face howe2021 find an image of yourself, and extract the colors, pixel-by-pixel use this as the raw material for an abstract (non-realistic) self-portrait consider color, shape, depth, and motion (*video ok, but no interaction/webcam) how abstract can you make the portrait, while still recognizable as human figure? think about texture presentations self portraits scott blake, self-portrait made with color tiles
howe2021 sm3809 software art studio howe2021 review: images, video, pixelsreview: next-level javascript, jsonpresentation: futa keracritique #5emergencerule-based systemsthis week howe2021 select code artist that we have not yet discussed, and *register* your artist with me create min presentation for the class further details to come...presentations presentations howe2021 jsoncallback functionsobject functionsarray functionsthe spread operator promises async / awaitajax / apisnext level javascript json is simple and very common data formatit is based on javascript (thus, the json)json has types of things, which should be familiar: propertiesarraysobjectsapis/jsonjavascript object notation (json) first, properties (or variables):these are key/value pairs:"id": , "name": "david", "active ": trueseparated by commasapis/jsonjson each object in json is surrounded with { and }so we might have:{ "username": "david", "studentid": }, { "username": "feng", "studentid": }, { "username": "chiwon", "studentid": }, apis/jsonjson arrays in json are surrounded with [ and ] :[ "monday", "tuesday", "wednesday", "thursday", "friday", "saturday" ] or, an array of objects:[ { "username": "david", "studentid": "" }, { "username": "feng", "studentid": "" }, { "username": "chiwon", "studentid":"" }, ] apis/jsonjson types of things: variables, arrays, objectsvery similar to js except that keys need quotationsno classes or functions, it is data onlyand that' basically all there is to itapis/json json let jsobject = json.parse(stringcontainingjson); let stringofjson = json.stringify(jsobject);apis/json json functions using foreach(), write function to return the intersection of two arrays (the elements in both):intersect([, , , ], [, , , , ]); // -> [, ] now modify your function to take any number of arraysintersect([, , , ], [, , ], [, ]); // -> [] intersect([, , , ], [, , ], [, ], []); // -> [] now do the same using the reduce() functionnow use reduce() and lter() together to do the same kata # view the json weather data for this week in hk at this [url]explore how the json data is organized and structuredlater we will talk about how to fetch such data yourself, but for now just copy it and add to sketch as shown ->now create simple visualization of the weather datakata # let data; function preload(){ data = loadjson('hkweather.json'); } function setup() { createcanvas(, ); textalign(center); textsize(); } function draw() { background(); text(data.city.name, , ); } kata #3read about the weather api [here]use loadjson to get the data for hong kong.explore how the json data is organized and structurednow modify your visualization to use this new data howe2021 critique: assignment 5presentations emergencewhen the interaction of many entities, each following simple rules, results in the collective exhibiting complex behavior, which often cannot be predicted by looking at the individual entities howe2021 rule-based systemspresentations howe2021 igor stravinskymy freedom will be so much the greater and more meaningful the more narrowly limit my eld of action and the more surround myself with obstacles. whatever diminishes constraint diminishes strength. the more constraints one imposes, the more one frees one' self of the chains that shackle the spirit. constraints howe2021 cellular automata from: cellular automaton (ca) howe2018 the gol howe2021 classes of complexity uniform periodic complexity randomgenerative art is search for the 'sweet spot between order and chaos' howe2021 edited from: howe2021 john horton conway howe2021 edited from: every cell with two or three neighboring cell survives for the next generation.death. each cell with four or more neighbors dies (is removed) from overpopulation. every cell with one neighbor or none dies from isolation.birth. each empty cell adjacent to exactly three neighbors--no more, no fewer--is birth cell. it will be alive in the next generation.the rules of life the (or ) cellmoore neighborhoodexamples howe2018 the rules of life howe2018 gol: video jared tarbell, alexander reben, kjetil golid, & manolo gamboa naon howe2021 boids howe2021 title text {software} structures lindenmayer systems howe2018 an -system (or lindenmayer system) consists of:alphabet: set of allowed charactersrules: set of transformation, or input-to-output, rulesaxiom: starting string, from the alphabeta generation is one expansion of the axiom. in each generation, the output of the previous generation is further expanded, according to the set of rules.finally, the output is interpreted (.., via turtle graphics)38l-systems howe2018 draw forwardmove forwardturn leftturn rightpush matrixpop matrix39turtle graphics lindenmayer systems
, :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of convolutionsexplained with ms excel!thom lanefollowpublished inapache mxnet9 min readoct , weve looked at 1d convolutions, 2d convolutions and 3d convolutionsin previous posts of the series, so in this next post were going to belooking at 4d convolutions, 5d convolutions and 6d convolutionsjust kidding! were going to be taking look something much moreuseful, and much easier to visualise with ms excel. we start withyour membership will expire on december , 2023reactivate membership + , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of applied to multiple input channels and then we look atconvolutions that return multiple output channels. simple, in mxnetgluon!multiple input channelsso far in this convolution series weve been applying:1d convolutions to dimensional data (temporal)2d convolutions to dimensional data (height and width)3d convolutions to dimensional data (height, width and depth)youll see an obvious pattern here, but this simple correspondence hidesan important detail. our input data usually defines multiple variables ateach position (through time, or space), and not just single value. we callthese channels.conv1d with multiple input channelsas sugar-coated example, lets take the case of ice cream salesforecasting. our input might be defined at daily intervals along ourtemporal dimension and have normalised values for the products price,marketing spend, outside temperature and whether it was the weekendor not. channels in total. , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of : an input array with channels over time steps.although the input data looks like its two dimensional, only one of thedimensions is spatial. wed only expect to find patterns in localneighbourhood of values through time, and not across localneighbourhood the channel variables. starting with random order of 4variables (, , , ), we would not expect to find similar spatialrelationship between &, & and & (if we set kernel shape of 2along this dimension).so for this reason, when working with multi-channel temporal data, itsbest to use 1d convolution; even though the data looks twodimensional.applying 1d convolution (with kernel size of ), our kernel will lookdifferent to the single channel case shown in the last post. given we have4 input channels this time, our kernel will be initialised with channelstoo. so even though we are using 1d convolution, we have 2d kernel! 1d convolution just means we slide the kernel along one dimension, itdoesnt necessarily define the shape of the kernel, since that depends on , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of the shape of the input channels too. figure : 1d convolution with kernel of size , applied to 4t6 input matrix to give 1t4 output.figure : excel formula used for cell q4advanced: 2d convolution with kernel shape (,) would be equivalent inthis situation, but with 1d convolution you dont need to specify the channeldimension. we usually rely on shape inference for this (.. after passing thefirst batch of data), but we can manually specify the number of input channelswith in_channels. when adding padding, stride and dilation to the equation,the equivalence between 2d and 1d convolutions might not hold.# define input_data and kernel as above# input_data.shape is (, )# kernel.shape is (, )conv = mx.gluon.nn.conv1d(channels=, kernel_size=)# see appendix for definition of `apply_conv`output_data = apply_conv(input_data, kernel, conv)print(output_data) , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of [[[. . . .]]]# <ndarray 1x1x4 @cpu()>our code remains unchanged from the single input channel case.just before we wrap up with 1d convolutions, its worth mentioninganother common use-case. one of the first stages in many naturallanguage processing models is to convert sequence of raw text into asequence of embeddings, either character, word or sentenceembeddings. at every time step we now have an embedding with acertain number of values (.. ) that each represent differentattributes about the character, word or sentence. we should think aboutthese just as with the time series example, and treat them as channels.since weve just got channels over time, 1d convolution is perfect forpicking up on useful local temporal patterns.conv2d with multiple input channelscolour images are great example of multi-channel spatial data too. weusually have channels to represent the colour at each position: for theintensities of red, green and blue colour. whats new this time though, isthat were dealing with two spatial dimensions: height and width. , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of : color images are often represented with channels (source)our kernel will adjust to the channels accordingly and even though wedefine 3x3 kernel, the true dimensions of the kernel when initialisedwill be 3x3x3, since we have input channels. since were back to 3dimensions again, lets take look at three.js diagram first beforeblowing our minds with ms excel. figure : 2d convolution with 3t3 kernel applied to an channel rgb input of size 5t5 to give outputof 3t3. (source)with the diagram above you should think about viewing from above ifyou wanted to view the actual image, but were interested in seeing thechannels, hence why were looking from slide angle. check out this linkfor an interactive version of the diagram above. one interestingobservation is that each layer of the kernel interacts with searchwrite , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of channel of the input.we can actually see this in more detail when looking at ms excel. figure : 2d convolution with 3t3 kernel applied to an channel rgb input of size 5t5 to give outputof 3t3.viewed like this, we think as if each channel has its own 3x3 kernel. weapply each layer of the kernel to the corresponding input channel andobtain intermediate values, single value for each channel. our finalstep is sum up these values, to obtain our final result for the output. sodegijklmnopqrstuvwxyinputkernelintermediateoutput3411025113.20075361110247572327288020109output1011011201221053101913151231130001311328162013030030712112318251410321151620121173132100752182101001182193320294620221 , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of ignoring 0s we get:red_out = (*)+(*) = 7green_out = (*)+(*) = 5blue_out = (*)+(*)+(*) = 7output = red_out + green_out + blue_out = ++ =19we dont actually calculate these intermediate results in practice but itshows the initial separation between channels. kernel still looks atpatterns across channels though, since we have the cross channelsummation at the end.advanced: 3d convolution with kernel shape (,,) would be equivalent inthis situation, but with 2d convolution you dont need to specify the channeldimension. again, we usually rely on shape inference for this (.. after passingthe first batch of data), but we can manually specify the number of inputchannels with in_channels. when adding padding, stride and dilation to theequation, the equivalence between 3d and 2d convolutions might not hold.# define input_data and kernel as above# input_data.shape is (, , )# kernel.shape is (, , ) , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of = mx.gluon.nn.conv2d(channels=, kernel_size=(,))output_data = apply_conv(input_data, kernel, conv)print(output_data)# [[[[. . .]# [. . .]# [. . .]]]]# <ndarray 1x1x3x3 @cpu()>code in mxnet gluon looks the same as with single channel input, butnotice that the shape of the kernel is (,,) because we have kernelapplied to an input with channels and it has height of and width of3. our layout for the kernel is therefore (in_channels, height, width).multiple output convolutions figure : imagenet patches that maximise the output of selected kernels from convolutional layers.(source)all the way back in the first blog post of the series we introduced theconvolution as feature detector, with the kernel defining the type offeature we wanted to detect. so far, in all of our examples, weve beenusing single kernel as part of our convolution, meaning that weve just , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of looking for single feature. clearly for tasks as complex as imageclassification, object detection and segmentation we need to be lookingat more than one feature at each layer of the network. figure : imagenet patches that maximise the output of selected kernels from convolutional layers.(source)starting with the first convolutional layers, it might be useful to detectedges at different angles and different colour contrasts (an example ofmultiple input channel kernels that weve just learnt about). and then inlater layers, it might be useful to detect spirals, as well as dog faces(always useful!).computationally, its very easy to add multiple output channels. we justrepeat the whole process from before for as many output channels as werequire, each time with different and independent kernel, and juststack all of the outputs. voil! , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of figure : 1d convolution with kernels of size applied to 1t6 input matrix to give 4t4 output.compare this with the figure from the last blog post. our first kernel isthe same as in that example and we get the same output (of shape 1x4),but this time we add more kernels and get an final output of shape 4x4.as usual, this is simple to add to our convolutions in mxnet gluon. all weneed to change is the channels parameter and set this to instead of .conv = mx.gluon.nn.conv1d(channels=, kernel_size=)advanced: we previously mentioned the similarly named parameter calledin_channels. its important to note the difference. in_channels is used if youwant to specify the number of channels expected in the input data, instead ofusing shape inference (by passing the first batch of data). channels is used tospecify the number of output channels required, .. the number of , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of kernels/filters.# define input_data and kernel as above# input_data.shape is (, )# kernel.shape is (, , )output_data = apply_conv(input_data, kernel, conv)print(output_data)# [[[ . . . .]# [ . . . .]# [ . . . .]# [. . . .]]]# <ndarray 1x4x4 @cpu()>once upon time, back in the last post, our 1d convolutions kernel wasalso 1d. when we had multiple input channels, we had to add an extradimension to the handle this. and now were looking at multiple outputchannels, weve got to add another! which takes us up to 3d in total for a1d convolution. weve had these dimensions all along (apologies forhiding the truth from you again!), but it was simpler to ignore them sincethey were of unit length and just let apply_conv add them for us.so for the case above we can see our kernel is of shape (,,). we have 4kernels, each of which is applied to the same input data with channel,and they all have width of in the temporal dimension. our layout forthe kernel is therefore (channels, in_channels, width). check thefollowing table for more complete list of default dimension layouts. , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of : mxnet gluons default dimension layouts.advanced: depth-wise separable convolutionsthe vast majority of convolutions youll see in common neural networksarchitectures will be applied to multiple input channels and returnmultiple output channels. computation scales linearly with the numberof output channels, but the amount of computation required can still getvery large for large in_channels and large channels. as more efficientalternative, we can use depth-wise separable convolution. when welooked at multiple input channels (see figure ), we showed anintermediate step before the sum across input channels. with depth-wiseseparable convolutions, you apply 1x1 convolution instead of the sum.weve essentially split the convolution into stages: the first looking atspatial patterns across each channel input individually, and the secondlooking across channels (but not spatially). , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of : regular convolution vs depth-wise separable convolutionwith mxnet gluon we can use the groups argument of the convolution tospecify how we want to partition the operation. check the mobilenetimplementation for mxnet gluon for an example usage. groups are set tothe number of input channels which gives the depth-wise separableconvolution.get experimentalall the examples shown in this blog posts can be found in these ms excelspreadsheets for conv1d and conv2d (or on google sheets here and hererespectively). click on the cells of the output to inspect the formulas andtry different kernel values to change the outputs. after replicating yourresults in mxnet gluon, think you can officially add convolutions guruas title on your linkedin profile!up next , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of good things must come to an end, but not before weve understoodthe transposed convolution! in the final blog post of the series well betaking look at two different mental models for thinking abouttransposed convolutions, and see some practical examples too.appendix: , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of by thom lane521 followerseditor for apache mxnetmachine learning scientist for aws aifollow more from thom lane and apache mxnet thom lanestreamlit on aws: fully-thom laneinapache mxnettransposed convolutionsmachine learningmxnetcomputer visiondeep learningconvolutional network , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of solution for streamlitdeployments.sample aws cloudformation template &code included. min readjun , 20203292explained with ms excel!youve successfully navigated your wayaround 1d convolutions, 2d convolutionsand 3d convolutions. youve conqueredmulti-input and10 min readnov , .8k13 haichen sheninapache mxnetspeed up your bert inference by3x on cpus using apache tvmintroduction6 min readjul , 20204601thom laneinapache mxnet1d & 3d convolutions explainedwith ms excel!welcome back to the blog post series onconvolutions using ms excel and apachemxnet gluon. just incase you missed thefirst post you can7 min readoct , 20184951see all from thom lanesee all from apache mxnetrecommended from medium , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of from medium vaibhav rastogifully connected layerfully connected layer: min readsep 83rukaiya banoconvolution neural networks: allyou need to knowunderstanding the power of convolutionalneural networks (cnns) in machinelearning and image processing4 min readmay 303listspredictive modeling /python20 stories645 savespractical guides to machinelearning10 stories724 savesnatural languageprocessing908 stories428 savesthe new chatbots:chatgpt, bard, and beyond12 stories221 saves , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of malviyaconvolution & poolingconvolution layer: min readaug 3mijanur rahmaninai mindlets understand the 1dconvolution operation in pyt orchdid you know it right? did you try to seewhats really happening inside? min readaug stefano ca journey through conv1dfunctions from ensorflow topyt orch. part 4summary6 min readjun 10bilal_aihog vs. cnn unveiling thepower of image classificationimage classification is at the heart ofcomputer vision, enabling machines tounderstand and interpret visual data. in thisblog post, we4 min readoct , :01multi-channel convolutions explained with ms excel! | by thom lane | apache mxnet | medium page of more recommendations helpstatusaboutcareersblogprivacyt ermst ext to speecht eams
copyright reserved: all lecture notes and related materials are solely used for this course. please do not upload the materials to any unauthorized websites or distribute to other parties without my permission. ge1121 the japanese way of tea: history , arts, architecture and philosophy week the formal tea ceremony (cha-ji) in formal tea ceremony (cha -ji), only up to five guests are invited at time. three main stages are included: ) zen-seki(preliminary part) machiai ( waiting hut) seki-iri(entering the tea room) sho-za(sumi-demae/building charcoal fire, be served with kaiseki meal) ) naka-dachi(second stage) koshi-kake-machiai (the guests sit and wait at another room/the garden while the host prepares the flower and other arrangement for the next stage) ) nori-iri(final stage ) go-za(go-zumi/adding charcoal, be served with thick and thin tea) tai-seki(leaving and greetings) tanaka & tanaka () video on cha -ji produced by urasenke kyoto japan, copyright reserved when all guests have arrived, an attendant will guide them to the outside waiting area. the host goes out into the inner garden to rinse his/her mouth with water from the stone water - basin (tsukubai ). /he then walks to the middle gate to welcome his/her guests. tanaka & tanaka () the guests follow the host to the middle gate and walk toward the washbasin to wash their hands and at the same time, admiring the garden and scenery. the main guest first walks along the stepping stones toward the tea room. when guests arrive at the tea house for tea ceremony, they are asked to wait at the machi-ai,usually it is simple hut in the garden with small roof in case of rain. tanaka & tanaka () when they meet each other, they greet with silent bow. the host then shuts the gate and returns to the tea room. the guests go inside through small guests entrance called nijiri-guchior crawl -through door. tanaka & tanaka () after entering the room, everyone turns around and leans his straw sandal against the lower wall outside the entrance. the last person shuts the door with small bang signaling to the host that all are now assembled in the tea room. these steps are known as seki-iri (rules of entering the tea room). tanaka & tanaka () the host comes out of his preparation room to welcome his guests verbally for the first time. the host then returns to the preparation room and brings out the utensils needed for building the charcoal fire called sumi-demae. tanaka & tanaka () as the fire begins to burn, the guests are served with the meal know as kaiseki. the kaiseki meal usually takes about - minutes. ** ritual involved in the eating of kaiseki called sakazuki -goto( the sharing of one sake cup between the host and his guests). finally, an omo-gashi(moist sweet) is served. tanaka & tanaka () when the kaiseki meal is over, the guests replace all the bowls and dishes in their original positions on the tray. the guests drop their chopsticks on the tray with sharp clack, informing the host the meal is finished. everyone is silent during this interlude and sense of tranquility ( jaku) pervades the room. tanaka & tanaka () the guests now then leave the room and wait with sei-za (japanese sitting style). or they will go out to the garden to wait until the next stage. the host enters the tea room and arrange the flowers and prepare the next stage ( go-za, .. adding charcoal ). when everything is done, the host beats gong. tanaka & tanaka () the main guest first enters the tea room, and admires the flowers and vase placed on the alcove (toko-noma), and the big water pot (cha-iri-gama). tanaka & tanaka () the guests will be shared thick tea. the host will then proceed the go-zumi (this procedure for adding charcoal to the fire ). finally, hi-gashi(small and dry sweet) is served with the thin tea. tanaka & tanaka () it comes to the end of the formal tea ceremony. the host and the guest greet each other, and the main guest first leave the room through the small entrance door to the roji(the tea garden). the host greets the guests from the nijiri-guchi(small crawling entrance). the tea ceremony ends. tanaka & tanaka () in temae, the preparation of tea, you bring the utensils of tea to the mats of the tea room and place them in the correct position. you then prepare tea, handling the utensils according to the prescribed rules. great beauty is already created within the tea room by the arrangement of utensils for us. in the movement of temae, some are slow and some are fast this is the beauty of movement however, temaeis not simply matter of learning such forms. in taking the tea bowl, you must possess the spirit of taking; in purifying the scoop, the spirit of purifying; in preparing the tea, the spirit of preparing. only when this depth and richness of spirit is added, will it become good temae. (sensoshitsu xv, ). the etiquette of temaeis not limited to the tea room but it will become an integral part of our daily life. the forms and spirit people acquire through the training will possess an appeal that will enable us to move people everywhere. the way of tea is powerful force in the molding of human characters. the best charcoal is made from kind of oak called kunugi. in order to prepare delicious tea, it is extremely important to control the temperature of the hot water. lighting the fire sho-zumi(sumi-demae, first laying of charcoal) go-zumi(second laying of charcoal). kiku-zumi (chrysanthemu charcoal) its cut end looks like chrysanthemum ) wa: as also indicated in prince shotokus seventeen -article constitution (about 7th century), harmony ( wa) should be valued. this is the real peace when each individual, in playing his/her part in the whole, acts in spirit of peaceful harmony. this is also basic to healthy human society. genshitsu, sen & soshitsu sen () kei: human beings cannot survive alone; they get along in life because of the mutual support and help that they receive from each other. this principle teaches us that we must treat everything around us with respect. genshitsu, sen & soshitsu sen () sei: this does not refer only to cleanliness in the physical sense, but also to the purityof ones inner self. things that have concrete form are easy to see. there is the dross of life that may cling to our spirits; we cannot assume it is not there because we cannot see it. this principle concerns the removal of such impurities from ones inner self. we must try to do is to keep an open and humble mind, striving always to purify our minds and hearts. genshitsu, sen & soshitsu sen () jaku: while we cannot foresee the future, we should always strive for calmness and steadiness of mind that will not be upset no matter what circumstance arises. tranquility is the state of mind after having prepared yourself to deal with all eventualities. genshitsu, sen & soshitsu sen () genshitsu , sen xv. paul varley and kurokawa shz translated (). the spirit of tea. kyoto: tankosha . genshitsu , sen and soshitsu sen. eds. (). urasenke chadotextbook. japan: tankosha . tanaka, seno and tanaka, sendo. (). the tea ceremony. japan: kodansha. tanaka, seno & tanaka, sendo (). the tea ceremony. tokyo ; new york, ny: kodansha international. (see chapter iii: the ceremony: the tea ceremony as whole, pp. -)
dr can liu (wed, thu) ofce: m7073 email: canliu@cityu.edu.hk /tsan/sm2716 physical computing & tangible media analog input & output press changes the current state of the led (toggles) have you succeed in implementing this? any problems? last week - toggle switch tips: use global boolean variable to store the led state (high or low), and the previous state of the switch.. when switch goes from high to low, change the led state to the opposite state. last week - toggle switch does it work % well? how to debounce? debouncing switch you may have noticed problem with the toggle... the push button contact bounces for several milliseconds (can be from fraction of ms to as long as 50ms) .by hardware (low pass filter) .by software: using timing ()add blocking delay()... not efficient, but simplest. () non-blocking delay, we will learn later timing based debouncing: switch state what we have learned so far: digital / digital output (example: led blinking) (in setup()) pinmode(pinled, output); ... digitalwrite (pinled, high /low ); digital input (example: push-button switch) (in setup()) pinmode(pinswitch, input / input_pullup); ... boolean val; val = digitalread (pinswitch); the analog signal (input or output) note: continuous voltage values discrete voltage values voltage time voltage what can you sense? light (visible, uv, infrared) sound and ultrasounds temperature, pressure, humidity, pollution, gases (co2, alcohol...) force, taps, weight bend and stretch magnetic and electrical fields acceleration, rotation distances... also biosensing such as: brain waves muscle, heart, skin conductivity thermal cameras! ... everything you can imagine (and more!) analog inputs and the arduino analog signals (continuous voltages) from sensors can be read by an arduino: use pins a0 ... a6 they accept voltages from to 5v (!) ... but how the arduino reads an analog value? it does not use float voltage is converted to number from to corresponds to 0v, and to 5v this process is called analog to digital conversion (adc), because continuous signal is represented by discrete series of numbers.adc capable pins so, an analog pin measures voltage... lets read the potentiometer position recall: potentiometer is tuneable voltage divider r1 + r2 = 0v5v5v 0vr1 r2 remarks: dont use potentiometer with small between and 5v (safe > ohm) dont use potentiometer with too large (tens of mega ohm). it will be noisy... hands on... value = analogread(analogpin); reads the value from the analog pin (here a0) returns value ranged from (0v) to (5v). see the values: use the serial plotter ! light sensors: the photo resistor photoresistors (light dependent resistors or ldr) resistance change with light ( light-controlled potentiometer!) high resistance in darkness / low resistance with light about 200k (dark) to 10k (twilight ). by measuring the resistance, we could make light-activated switch... night > kohm day < kohm photoresistor arduino analog pins measure voltage, not resistance! we need voltage divider (like in the potentiometer). one difference: r1 + r2 is not constant. r2 is fixed, and only r1 variesbut there is problem!! we need to measure the resistance of the ldr r1 r2r1 to arduino analog pinarduino could compute r1 using this formula, given r2 and the voltage measured... but we can just consider the voltage to switch on/off =. + pull-up or pull-down configuration for the ldr? question: can you figure out what happens to when the light gets brighter on circuit ? and on circuit ? () () () voltage reading will increase with increasing light intensity. () voltage reading will decrease with increasing light intensity. both work... which is better for sensing light? it depends on your light conditions. if you are in the bright, your measures will be better on (). if you are in the dark, better use (). what value for the fixed resistor? dont worry too much: put something like kohm, and just read what the arduino measures to choose your threshold. () ()answer notes on use of an analog sensor ) to trigger an event , we need to set threshold. example: switching light when it gets too dark. ) to convert the measured voltage into some useful unit (say, in lux), we need to calibrate things. the serial monitor or serial plotter is very useful for both tasks voltage hands on! kohm 18code to read the light sensor input value observe the values of the voltage on the serial port, for different light conditions. here the serial monitor will be more useful that the plotter, but we need to add delay so we have time to read. values are between to ... second delay what if we want to read the actual voltage (in volts?) since the conversion is linear from to to to , we can simply do: float voltage = ./ * value; now on the serial port you can read the measurement in volts. notes: voltage is float , not an integer, so we can output fractions of volt) we use . instead of just , otherwise the compiler thinks it has to throw the decimal parts. for instance: / would give... . other common light sensors photoresistor: very slow ... photodiode: its fast, but less sensitive than phototransistor. can generate power too (photovoltaic cells). phototransistor: transistor switched by light ( photodiode current amplified. its slower than the photodiode, but more sensitive attn : unfortunately, black or transparent (or bluish, etc) led looking device can be led (infrared, etc), phototransistor or photodiode. you cannot tell by just looking at the color . also, beware of the legs: the long one is the emitter (its source so its connected to.. gnd) analog output and the arduino? arduino does not have true digital to analog converters pins. it only can output or 5v! how can we output an analog signal? arduino has special pins capable of generating alternating 0s and 1s, and you can control the length of the pulses using analogwrite(pin, value) single call to analogwrite(pin, value) will make arduino generate that sequence automatically... cool, but whats the point?? pulse wave modulation: pseudo analog signal the trick is that the sequence is very fast, whatever is connected (motors, etc) will feel the average voltage! analogwrite(pwmpin, value) value = => 0v value = => 5v use potentiometer to dim the led remarks: led can switch on/off very quickly too, so in fact it does not see an average... but our eyes see the average!! (if you shake your board quickly, you will see the flicker of the led. this is something you can see in most devices using led... ) code remarks: analogread gives value from to . but the precision of analogwrite is between and . you can convert the values manually as before, or use the function map (it only work with integers) led fading up and down remarks: the call to delay() does not affect the analog output level, but the time we stay at that level (there are levels) example - use light sensor to dim led exercise (analog input) use potentiometer to adjust the blinking speed of led exercise use photoresistor instead of potentiometer use photoresistor to adjust the blinking speed of led
machine learning for artists week fiveclassification classificationin classification problem, we train system using training dataset (vectors in rn) and set of labels (integers), one for each datapoint, representing the membership of that datapoint in class. wewishtopredict, for new datapoints (not in the training set), the class label of that point source: binary classification to simplify the discussion, we will mainly consider datasets where every point belongs to one of only two possible classes. these are binary classification problems. example: the data are photographs and the labels are () indoor or () outdoor. the data are biological data of patients who can () have cancer or () not have it. an important concept in classical classification methods is linear separability(separability by hyperplane.) source: source: dataset consists of points belonging to two classes (shown in blue and red). separating hyperplane (or decision surface) is line (plane, etc.) that divides the space into two disjoint half-spaces, such that: all elements of one class are on side of the line (one half-space) and all elements of the other class are on the other side of the line (the other half-space). if such hyperplane exists, the data is said to be linearly separable. source: not all classification data is linearly separable. this dataset, for example, is not linearly separable. source: ///linearly-separable-no-for-me-it-is--brief-introduction-to-kernel-methods/ linear vs. nonlinear classification data source: if two classesare linearly separable, we often find that there are many possible separating hyperplanes. an interesting problem in classical machine learning was finding good separating hyperplane. source: we often want to find lines that separate the classes by large margin.we want the hyperplane to have the greatest possible distance to the closest datapoint. in this diagram: one line does not separate the data. one line separates the data by low margin. one line separate the data by the highest possible margin. which are these lines? support vector machine (svm) models are designed to identify the separating hyperplane with the greatest margin. source: source: datapoints on (or close to) the maximum margin are called support vectors. source: how to deal with data that is not linearly separable? if classes are not linearly separable, they can sometimes be linearly separated if mapped to higher dimensional space. if we map our data back to our original space (in this case 2d), theecisioboundary looks like this. this datasestin one dimension is not separable but it becomes separable when mapped in suitable way to two dimensions. source: in practical situations, however, mapping the data to suitable higher dimensional space is not feasible due to the high computational cost of doing so. instead of doing the actual mapping, it is often possible to perform the desired computations in the native data space and obtain the same result as if we had performed the higher-dimensional mapping. this subject of nonlinear support vector machinesis highly technical. you can research the topic kernel trick to find out more about these methods. kernel trickthe key idea is this: the main operation involved in svm classification is the dot product. kernel is function applied to data in their home space and computes number that is the same as their dot product in higher dimensional space. the calculation is performed without having to map the data to higher dimensional space. nonlinear methods there are other nonlinear classification methods. we will mention only one example today the -nearest neighbor (knn) approach that we studied in the context of regression can also be applied in classification problems. we could also apply decision tree to classification problems.
sm3809 software art studio reviewkata: permutationslindemayer systems evolutionary algorithms generative vs software artautomata extensions (lenia, nueral cas)presentation: qianqian critique #: critical software artthis week binary numbers binary numbers can (of course) be used for arithmeticwhat is + in binary?what is * in binary?what is / in binary?what is * in binary?binary numbers decimal to binarywith descending powers of two128643216842100000111find , the greatest power of smaller (or equal) than your decimal numberreplace the zero below it with onesubtract from your numberrepeat with your new number permutation incomplete open cubes() sol lewitt kata: permutationswrite function to generate permutations:// return array of every length-size combination of alphabet permutations([,],) => [, , , ]; function permutations(alphabet, length) { your code } jsoncallback functionsobject functionsarray functionsthe spread operator promises async / awaitajax / apisnext level javascript select code artist that we have not yet discussed, and *register* your artist with me create min presentation for the class further details to come...presentations presentations softwaregenerativeart continuous automata lenia: expanded universe step by step guide from discrete to continuous cellular automata bert chan, hong kong researcher critique: assignment 6presentations lindenmayer systems howe2018 an -system (or lindenmayer system) consists of:alphabet: set of allowed charactersrules: set of transformation, or input-to-output, rulesaxiom: starting string, from the alphabeta generation is one expansion of the axiom. in each generation, the output of the previous generation is further expanded, according to the set of rules.finally, the output is interpreted (.., via turtle graphics)18l-systems howe2018 draw forwardmove forwardturn leftturn rightpush matrixpop matrix19turtle graphics lindenmayer systems evolutionary algorithms simply put, in an ea, fitter members will survive and proliferate, while unfit members will die off and not contribute to the gene pool of further generations, much like in natural selection.concepts genotype phenotype fitness function state space search evolutionary algorithms simply put, in an ea, fitter members will survive and proliferate, while unfit members will die off and not contribute to the gene pool of further generations, much like in natural selection.concepts genotype phenotype fitness function process evolving virtual creatures evolutionary programming jon mccormack, fifty sisters, series of fifty evolved digital plant images using oil company logos as building blocks. use evolutionary algorithms to create artificial life forms that would be almost impossible to design directly. .generate initial population randomly2.then repeat until done:.evaluate the tness of each individual in the population .select the ttest individuals for reproduction (parents).breed new individuals through crossover and mutationd.replace least- individuals with new individualssimply put, in an ea, fitter members will survive and proliferate, while unfit members will die off and not contribute to the gene pool of further generations, much like in natural selection. genetic pseudocode lets practice
street country city district place street name street no.building open spacefloor area room no. oor no. outdoor environment indoor environment1. why should we understand our environment? should we still need to read map for today? today, apart from map-related professions, like the field of building construction or geography specialist. many general public seldom use map but they would resort to gps, intelligent-phone or the indication from subway station. such information provide animation, perspective image and index for us to refer. these items inevitably reduce our understanding of map. horizontal 1vertical horizontal reading map & plan interpretation . why should we understand our environment? and how?/ . basic of gis (geographic information system)/ . ways to read map . what are plans representing, the symbols, and the lines?/ . orthographical projections: relations between 2d representation and the 3d form/ space / .plans and directories / . other forms of plan- sections and elevations . observe the cue from surroundings after identifying the position and destination, you should look for the cues from map index. there are symbols and grids to mark up the road network (transportation), places of interest (.. bus stop, subway) and geographic coordinated system respectively. then, you can choose the fastest or the most comfortable routes to the destination. ii. preparation in mind after understanding where you are and which ways you are heading to, you should repeat it in your mind before starting the journey. it can reduce the time taken for decision at every street and spot. - head ne and go straight2- one way heading to . basic of gis (geographic information system) raster raster data type is, in essence, any type of digital image represented by reducible and enlargeable grids. anyone who is familiar with digital photography will recognize the raster graphics pixel as the smallest individual grid unit / building blocks of an image, usually not readily identified as an artifact shape until an image is produced on very large scale. gis=cartography + statistic + databasegis, what is gis? vector: points zero-dimensional points are used for geographical features that can best be expressed by single point reference in other words, by simple location. examples include wells, peaks, features of interest, and trailheads. vector: lines or polylines one-dimensional lines or polylines are used for linear features such as rivers, roads, railroads, trails, and topographic lines . again, as with point features, linear features displayed at small sc ale will be represented as linear features rather than as polygon . distance can be measured for line features. vector: polygons two-dimensional polygons are used for geographical features tha cover particular area of the earth' surface. such features ay include lakes, park boundaries, buildings, city boundaries, or land uses. polygons convey the most amount of information of the fil types. perimeter and area can be measured for polygon features.= =indestrutible . identify the 3d terrain 3d 3d . cut them into pieces + .+ . . draw in plan view (2d)+ .+ . + . 2d types and mechanism . city map central to the information provided by city map is the street network, including its street names (often supplemented by at least selection of individual house numbers), along with buildings, parks and waterways. streets and points of interest are usually also listed in legend or register, locating objects on map grid on the map. important places such as administrative buildings, cultural institutions, attractions, etc. may be highlighted with the assistance of pictograms. the map may also be complemented by representations of public transport facilities. in addition to linear true-to-scale maps, there are also maps with variable scale, for example where the scale gradually increases towards the city centre ( sh-eye projection). . world map world map is map of the surface of the earth, which may be made using any of number of different map projections.comprised of street names, map grids, points of interest and different scales for the region. land uses, topography, soil type mountain. maps of the world are often either 'political' or 'physical'. the most important purpose of the political map is to show territorial borders; the purpose of the physical map is to show features of geography such as mountains, soil type or land use. geological maps show not only the physical surface, but characteristics of the underlying rock, fault lines, and subsurface structures. . thematic map thematic map is map that focuses on specific theme or subject area, whereas in general map shows variety of phenomenageological, geographical, and politicalusually appear together.[] the contrast between them lies in the fact that thematic maps use the base data as coastlines, boundaries and places, only as point of reference for the phenomenon being mapped. . plat plat in the .. is map, drawn to scale, showing the divisions of piece of land. in other english-speaking countries there is no special term for this; it is type of ground plan.city, town or village plats show subdivisions into blocks with streets and alleys. further re nement often splits blocks into individual lots, usually for the purpose of selling the described lots; this has become known as subdivision. . topographic map topographic map is type of map characterized by large-scale detail and quantitative representation of relief, usually using contour lines in modern mapping, but historically using variety of methods. traditional definitions require topographic map to show both natural and man-made features . geologic map geologic map or geological map is special-purpose map made to show geological features. rock units or geologic strata are shown by color or symbols to indicate where they are exposed at the surface. bedding planes and structural features such as faults, folds, foliations, and lineations are shown with strike and dip or trend and plunge symbols which give these features' three-dimensional orientations. cartography and geologytopological map in cartography and geology, topological map is one that has been simpli ed so that only vital information remains and unnecessary detail has been removed. these maps lack scale, and distance and direction are subject to change and variation, but the relationship between points is maintained. trasit map transit map is topological map in the form of schematic diagram used to illustrate the routes and stations within public transport systemwhether this be bus lines, tramways, rapid transit, commuter rail or ferry routes. the main components are color coded lines to indicate each line or service, with named icons to indicate stations or base data: coastline, boundary, places aims: to show phenomena as theme stops. flow map flow maps in cartography are by definition of phan () " mix of maps and flow charts, that show the movement of objects from one location to another, such as the number of people in migration, the amount of goods being traded, or the number of packets in network". pictorial map pictorial maps are category of maps that are also loosely called illustrated maps, panoramic maps, perspective maps, birds-eye view maps and geopictorial maps amongst others. recent example of watercolour & ink geopictorial-style illustrated map by jean-louis rheaultin contrast to the regular road map, atlas or topographic cartography, pictorial maps depict given territory with more artistic rather than technical style. and map or - or - map this qualitative and conceptual type of medieval cartography could yield extremely detailed maps in addition to simple representations. the earliest maps had only few cities and the most important bodies of water noted. . reading map orienteering mapan orienteering map is map specially prepared for use in orienteering competitions. it is topographic map with extra details to help the competitor navigate through the competition area. brown : land formsland forms are shown using contour lines with contour interval of metres. additional symbols are provided to show .. earth bank, knoll, depression, small depression, pit, broken ground etc. black : rock features this group covers cliffs, boulders, boulder elds, and boulder clusters etc. blue : water features this group covers lakes, ponds, rivers, water channels, marshes, and wells etc. green /yellow : vegetation this group covers vegetation. white is typically open runnable forest. green means forest of low visibility with reduced running speed, being graded from slow running, through dif cult running, to impassable. yellow colour shows open areas. green vertical stripes are used to indicate undergrowth (slow or dif cult running) but otherwise with good visibility. black : man-made features man-made features include roads, tracks, paths, power lines, stone walls, fences, buildings, etc. lineweight and ll-in in order to contrast between mass and void, building and open space, or road and land slots, coloring, ll-in or contrasting lineweight would be used to highlight different features. another advantage of using lineweight because it avoid image with too much confusion. in other word, it is the simplest ways to categorize the "lines". as complex representation map is practical, technical and representational. although the map involve lots of simpli ed drawing in lines, they can represent the complex data in an easy manner. drawing convention although the lineweight and other convention can highligt the importance and make map more comprehensible, some universal icon and symbols are required to be included for clari ed meaning. like toilet, gate, stairs, levellings and place of interest. abstract map since map reading involves lots of data and information, the combined use of icons, graphics and descriptive annotation is essential to illustrate the complex relationship in our (built) environment. although the following diagrams represent the abstract content of the place, this method is universal to present both the survey and sequence for the place.they are: path, node, landmark, edge and distrtict. node. path. landmarkdistrict. edge.pathnodelandmarkedgedistrictpathpathpath nodenode node landmarklandmarklandmark edgeedge edge districtdistric district since map reading involves lots of data and information, the co mbined use of icons, graphics and descriptive annotation is essential to illustrate the complex elationship in our (built) environment. although the following diagrams represent the abstract content of the place, this method is universal to present both the survey and sequence for the place.they are: path, node, landmark, edge and distrtict. cityu cityua bcityu festival- walk mtr spatial = raster sequence = vector node landmarkdistrict pathedge b1. no spatial organization .linked, joined by route . spatial proximity . sequential order . positional (.. left or right) bwhat we undertsand in figure is that there are three identified objects which are , and . what we undertsand in figure is that , and are connected wth route.figure figure bwhat we undertsand in figure is that is closer to and is distant from the two objects. figure bwhat we undertsand in figure is the sequential relationship among the diagrams. figure what we undertsand in figure is the positioning among the objects, simply the adjacency and opposite. figure 5breakdown: the -point schema . what are plans representing, the symbols, and the lines? plan is the plot for an idea and building plan is equals to the plot of the building. it includes both abstract and solid representation of real object with the simpli ed and representative symbols. . plan is useful, we just don' see. the most usual plan we see in everyday life is building plan, especially in the sales bronchure, hotel escape route and shopping mall directory. as user of buildings, we have to deal with plans carefully to understand the space indicated and check if there' any problem related to usability, safety and health (natural lighting,ventilation,etc). building plan is commonly circulated between designers during the construction process. yet it is also functional for everyday users like shoppers in complex indoor environment which may puzzle the users with unpredictable circulations and unfamilar spaces. . indication: although plans are 2d drawings only, they relate to 3d space. therefore, when we look at the 2d plan, our mind would somehow transform them into 3d in our mind (if we know how to read them). the quality of drawing will infleunce our perception of space and our understanding of spatial dimensions . like mapping in previous chapter , lines (vector) is widely used in buildng plans, forming plane for object. the symbols, grids, te xts and numbers are all used to direct readers to understand the design and construction. . building plan types: the most common component in building layouts is the room. therefore, the idea of rooms arrangement and the boundary (wall) are commonly presented with the thickened lineweight. content enrichment by people and things. for the building layout without complex arrangment, adding people, furniture and greeneries help enrich the content of the 2d presentation. . significance: some large scale representation like block plans focus on the massing of the building only. it is commonly used for urban planning as to observe the solid and void pattern in the city.object, dissecting and directing the visual eyesight towards the opposite side. . other representation: landscape, lighting and shadow apart from presenting the planning layout and solid-void relationship,plan can represent the data of physcical objects as well such as shadow that casted on the objects or landscape atmoshphere (color). . layering since complete planning involves different kinds of classi cation, like structure and furniture, the concept of layering is always beared in mind. . orthographical projections: relations between 2d representation and the 3d form/ space before explaning what and how to present orthographical representation, we should know the advantage of this drawing: - increase the comprehension of wholeness; - content enrichement. . comprehension of wholenss since the real 3d object involves lot of lines with twisted angle and projection, the orthogonal representation help organize the confusing lines into linear dimension. even the projection is bit different from real object, the understanding of wholeness is increased and more information can be obtained through this drawing methodology. ii. two point perspective differed from one-point perspective which has only one vanishing point, two point perspective allow sharping of the focused object. the image projected would be distorted and becomes more self-contained. like the fisheye lens which help capturing wide image into one shot. iii. distortion in reality although the -point perspective is mostly appeared in drawing instead of real building work, it could happen in some situation like triangular site which contains the property of -point perspective drawing. .plans and directories plan is indicative in way that the content of information tells us how to use or to see the plan. some useful indicative symbol like arrow, dotted lines and hatching are useful to direct our eyesight to seach and relate to real object. . other forms of plan- sections and elevations elevation and section are the other kinds of plan representation. basically, elevation is the image of building exterior with rationalized dimension while section is the cutting surface of the elevation. the advantage of elevation is to present the complete image that we hardly observe from street angle, while section is even more important for the spatial quality, hierarchy and the levelling of the area. 3interior floor plan (2d)orthographical representation (. )perspective view (3d) . elevation elevation is refer to the building skin including glass, concrete wall but not as interior spatial arrangement. therefore, even the glass is transparent enough to be looked through, the elevation drawing still excludes the inner layer. with hierarchy of the elevated object like trees, they are thickened to infer its front position. . signi cance of elevation the importance of elevation is the communication between passerby and building. like many medieval cities that with historical walls, they tell history with their texture and appearance. it marks the city image and its uniqueness. . section section can be everywhere with the intent to showcase the spatial relationship in any places. the ultimate goal for section is to make understandable, so that the cut area must be meaningful enough to convey the quality of the spatial arrangement. . signi cance of section although space can also be observed through eyes directly, the wholeness and more holistic understanding would be hindered by the limited angle. like sydney opera house, we could only observe the shell-like structure but cannot undestand the interior layout exactly, the spatial section drawing helps us comprehend the arrangment of the seating, theatre and performance stage. . abstract representation since section and elevation require certain architectural knowledge to understand, the abstract representation sometimes could make the graphic be more comprehensible like sectional persepectives and diagrams. . the daily examples in hong kong, we could also observe some special elevation and provide section for them. for example, the old shopfront of the tenement house (shophouse) or the food store in some old district which create high variety of elevational (facade) elements with personalized features. about space. about elevation kowloon walled citysome artist in hong kong also tried to portray some daily element like dai pai dong, electric tram or star ferry with sectional diagrams. . the combinative (section + elevation) nowadays, we also can see some mixture between elevation and section. although they are not the formal drawing, the portrait is related to our daily observance. because we mainly observe the building with the people occupied. it is building-people object instead of building only. therefore, the drawing can be creative to convey such information to the public. and for the formal drawing, since the ultimate receiver is the designer and construction personnels, they must be presented with an organized system.
dr can liu (wed, thu) ofce: m7073 email: canliu@cityu.edu.hk /tsan/sm2716 physical computing & tangible mediamaking and sensing sound sound (audio signal)sound is propagating wave of pressure (change of density) in material the ear or microphone measures the local pressure of the air and transforms it into an electrical signal. this is called the waveform. it is an analog signal! frequency (pitch) and amplitude (loudness) of pure tone aire pressure hearingproducing knockreal voicemusic sound wave signal noise buzzer piezo moving coil speakeri) sound generation: speakers output components we haveactive buzzer:-has simple oscillator circuit to convert direct current input into pulse signal of certain frequency.-ideal signal is direct currentpassive buzzer:-without oscillator circuit-the ideal input is the positive square wave the piezoelectric effect is reversible in that piezoelectric crystals, when subjected to an externally applied voltage, can change shape by small amount. how to use buzzerthe code in any digital pin(*) duration can be specified, otherwise the wave continues until call tonotone(). tone( pin , frequency, duration); the tone function tone( pin , frequency); (*) use of the tone() function will interfere with pwm output on pins and generates square wave of the specified frequency (always % duty cycle): sample code for creating melody the code this pitches. contains the frequencies for each note; this file is #included in the main program exercise : create your own melody store the notes and durations of your own melody more notes and frequencies can be found here: ii) audio acquisition: the microphonesound are variation of air pressure (or other material) microphone transduces it in electrical signalcarbon (oldest...): resistance changes with sound electret: capacitance is modulated (lapel mics) dynamic microphone: output is voltage piezo transducer output is current (pick up guitars, contact mic) mems microphone (very compact!) smartphones... piezo transducer as contact micapiezoelectric transducer transforms mechanical deformation into voltage.pressure waves in the air or the guitar frame deforms the piezo. piezo transducer: as knock sensor electronic drum pad.. this is exactly what you find under the drum pad! fun example: piezo activated led drums piezos arepolarized; put -megohm resistor in parallel to the piezo element (limit the voltage/current produced by the piezo and protect the analog input).piezo transducer: as knock sensor constintledpin=; // led connected to digital pin 13constintknocksensor=a0;// the piezo is connected to analog pin 0constintthreshold=;// threshold value to decide when the detected sound is knock or not// these variables will change:intsensorreading=; // variable to store the value read from the sensor pinintledstate=low; // variable used to store the last led status, to toggle the lightvoidsetup(){pinmode(ledpin,output);// declare the ledpin as as outputserial.begin(); // use the serial port}voidloop(){// read the sensor and store it in the variable sensorreading: sensorreading=analogread(knocksensor);// if the sensor reading is greater than the threshold:if(sensorreading>=threshold){ // toggle the status of the ledpin: ledstate=!ledstate; // update the led pin itself: digitalwrite(ledpin,ledstate); // send the string "knock!" back to the computer, followed by newline serial.println("knock!");}delay();// delay to avoid overloading the serial port buffer}codecheck on serial monitor or plotter to decide your threshold exercise : tap melody how about we combine the piezo-detected knocks with the code for generating melody? create your own melody; each time you knock on the table, note of the melody will play indefinitedly (dont tone(...) with duration); when the melody is over, it starts from the first note againhint: in the code for the melody, there is blocking delay. you have to get rid of it, otherwise you wont be able to continue detecting knocks how to sample at fixed intervals, without blocking the program (no delay)? better debouncing: control the sampling periodadding delay(...) blocks the execution. we may want to do other things (including reading other sensors for instance) using clock! unsigned long time = millis();millis() returns the number of milliseconds passed since the arduino board began running the current program. it is long number (up to days in milliseconds), hence unsigned long non-blocking delay theremin: capacitive sensor / use light sensor to control the frequency of speaker secret knock code to open doors or drawers! other fun projects you can try heartbeat sensorsound is just temporal signalthe techniques we are learning here can be applied to other things like measuring the heart beat.you can even measure the heart rate in bpm (beats per minute) by averaging the times between knocks. next week:advanced sensing with accelerometer (motion), distance, etc.
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow iv dr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow iv dashboard 02exercise & project design 01design workflow iv part one design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions. design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe second stage: giving all the things we could show, what will we show? design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe design phase will focus on five layers of visualization design: data representation, interactivity, annotation, color and composition. annotationthe value of annotationafter interactivity, annotation is the third layer of design thinking. the essence of annotation is providing assistanceto your readers, to help them optimize their understanding of the content being presented to them. it is arguably the least technical of all the design layers but is often quite difficult to gauge, to find the right balancebetween useful assistance and overwhelming clutter. it is also the most easily neglected of the design layers. annotationthe value of annotationthere are two groups of options to consider: project annotation & chart annotation annotationproject annotationsheadingsintroductionsuser guidesfootnotes annotationproject annotationsheadingsincluding main project titles (often based on headline message or question that expresses the overriding project curiosity) and subtitles or chart-titles (usually descriptive, explaining what is plotted). annotationproject annotationsheadings annotationproject annotationsintroductionsthese provide place to offer some set-up information about the project background, whereit comes from and whyyou have done it, maybe presenting summaryof the main findings, or key contextual information the reader needs to be aware of before embarking on the process of consuming the visuals. annotationproject annotationsintroductionsthe content of this introduction might usefully explain in clear language terms some of the components you considered during the editorial thinking activity, such as:details of the reason for the project (source curiosity);an explanation of the relevance of this analysis; description of the analysis (angle, framing) this is presented;expression of the main message or finding that the work is about to reveal (possibly focus). annotationproject annotationsintroductions annotationproject annotationsuser guides. these help with functional instructions when interactive features are available, not just explaining what you can do interactivity-wise but also howto use the features correctly. annotationproject annotationsfootnotes.usually at the end of project where you might provide moretechnical or administrative information about backgrounds to the sources and handling of your data, any credits, further links, details about launch dates and/or version information, who to contact for more info, etc. annotationproject annotationsfootnotes. annotationchart annotationsreader guideschart apparatuslegendsdata overlayscaptions annotationchart annotationsreader guides: detailed instructions advising readers how to perceive and interpret the chart. annotationchart annotationsreader guides annotationchart annotationschart apparatusmost charts will include annotated features like axis titles, axis scales, value labels to really help reader understand the values they are perceiving. axis titles: describe what values are being referenced by each axis. this might be single word or short sentence depending on what best fits the needs of your viewers.axis labels: provide value references along each axis to help identity the categorical value or the date/quantitative value associated with that scale position.value labels: will appear in proximity to specific mark encodings inside the chart. typically, these labels will be used to reveal quantity, such as showing the percentage sizes of the sectors in pie chart or the height of bars. annotationchart annotationschart apparatus annotationchart annotationschart apparatus annotationchart annotationslegends: provides detailed keys for color or size associations. annotationchart annotationsdata overlays. you may wish to add more visual detail to your chart displays to help indicate key insights in the context of comparisons, such as displaying average trend lines, forecast or target values, what it means across the different regions of chart area if items are positioned there, etc. annotationchart annotationsdata overlays. annotationchart annotationscaptions.these will be simple text boxes/callouts that provide some commentary about key observations from the data displayed. if you cant verbalize them, write them. annotationchart annotationscaptions. annotationan example illustrating some of the main annotation features employed in the filmographics visualization project. annotationtypographymost of the annotation features you include are based on text and so you will need to consider carefully the legibility of the typeface you choose and the logic behind the font-size hierarchy you display. typeface is designed collection of glyphs representing individual letters, numbers and other symbols of language based on cohesive style. font is the variation across several physical dimensions of the typeface, such as weight, size, condensation and italicization. typeface can have one or many different fonts in its family.type effectively represents the collective appearance formed by the choice of typeface and the font. annotationtypographyin terms of legibility, you need to choose typeface and font combination that will be suitable for the role of each element of text you are using. viewers need to be able to read the words and numbers on display without difficulty. quite obvious, really.just as variation in color implies meaning, so does variation in typeface and font. if you make some text capitalized, large and bold-weight this will suggest it carries greater significance and portrays higher prominence across the object hierarchy than any text presented in lower case, with smaller size and thinner weight. so you should seek to limit the variation in font where possible. annotationannotation: what influences your choices?when it comes to making decisions about which annotation features to use, there are several main factors that influence your choices, informed by the work weve undertaken in the three preparatory stages of the design workflow (formulating your brief, working with data and establishing your editorial thinking). ensuring you observe the three principles of good visualization design (trustworthiness, accessible and elegant) also exists as supplementary influence. annotationannotation: what influences your choices?formulating your brief (context)above all else, your annotation choices will be heavily influenced by your judgment of your audienceand the degree to which they will need assistance with understanding the content being presented to them. what is the sophistication of your audiences domain knowledge? what is their likely knowledge of terminology, acronyms or abbreviations? will they know how to form interpretations about this subject matter or will they need guidance? will they know or need to know much about where the data has come from and what has been done to it? annotationannotation: what influences your choices?formulating your brief (context) annotationannotation: what influences your choices?formulating your brief (vision)for explanatory visualisationsannotation is important to help bring to the surface the key insights you wish to share with your audience, whereas for exploratory visualisationsthe annotation will typically be limited more towards functional guidance, describing how to use the interactive features you have provided. if you are placing an emphasis on reading data then, for example, you will likely include quite lot of detailed chart apparatus, making the precision of judging values as clear as possible. for feeling data you might focus your annotations more towards high-level observations. annotationannotation: what influences your choices?formulating your brief (vision)the defined intentions for the tone and experience of your work will influence the type and extent of annotation features required. annotationannotation: what influences your choices?establishing our editorial thinkingare there any values you wish to focus on or emphasise, through data overlays or labels? not all values plotted in chart can be or require detailed annotation so what is your criteria for which ones may? annotationdesign principlesthe overriding design challenge is to balanceaccessibility with elegance. adding too much annotation can overwhelm the viewer, risk being patronizing and detract the viewer from the real message of the visualisation. not having sufficient annotation you risk missing important information that can assist the audience to interpret as you intended the visualisation. missing information may also undermine trust in the content you are presenting, especially with regards to describing the origins, treatment and any key assumptions made with your data. annotationdesign principlestrustworthy designmaximize the information viewers have to ensure all your data work is transparent and clearly explained.accessible designwhat is the right amount and type of annotation suitable to the setting and complexity of your subject?elegant designminimisethe clutter: key concern about annotations is judging the merits of including structural or textual assistance against the potential disruption and obstruction caused by these to the view of the data. 2dashboard part two dashboardhow dashboards facilitate analysis and understandingwhen reviewing reports or creating new analytical reviews of data, you are looking for storysomething of value that you can share with others to enable change for the better. dashboards fortify this storytelling by providing complementary views of the data and turning the data into actionable information that is supported by facts.well-designed dashboards are also visually interesting and draw the user into play with the information, providing details on-demand that enable the information consumer to understand what, who, when, where, how, and perhaps even when something has changed. dashboardthe wrong way to build dashboard dashboardwhy was it poorly designed dashboard?relying on grids or overly complex individual charts generally accomplishes two undesirable outcomes. . the dashboard does not communicate effectively .. the dashboard fails to convey important information quickly due to overly dense and complicated charts and inappropriate chart type.specifically, displaying months of history for products ( = data points) does not help the information consumer see the trends and outliers as easily as time-series chart of the same information. dashboardthe right way to build dashboard1.size the dashboard to fit in the worst-case available space..employ four-pane dashboard designs3.use actions to filter instead of quick filters..build cascading dashboard designs to improve load speed..limit the use of color to one primary color scheme..use small instructions near the work to make navigation obvious..avoid one-size-fits-all dashboards (make your dashboard fit the particular purpose of each audience) dashboardthe right way to build dashboard1.size the dashboard to fit in the worst-case available space. dashboardthe right way to build dashboard1.size the dashboard to fit in the worst-case available space.design your dashboard to fit comfortably in the available space by determining the pixel height and width of the worst-case dashboard consumption environment.for laptop: pixelsfor desktop: pixelsweb-embedded dashboards: pixels dashboardthe right way to build dashboard2.employ four-pane dashboard designsa four visualizations design style will generally be read from the upper left to the lower right in pattern unless you do something to grab attention elsewhere. dashboardthe right way to build dashboard2.employ four-pane dashboard designs dashboardthe right way to build dashboard3.use actions to filter instead of quick filters.employing multiple quick filters in dashboard is also potentially confusing to the audience. by altering the design to series of four-pane dashboard and replacing the quick filters with filter actions, load time for each dashboard can be reduced. dashboardthe right way to build dashboard4.build cascading dashboard designs to improve load speed.achieving fast load times can be challenging if the source data is very large. show the data summarized globally first.then, drill into much more detailed subsets of the data. dashboardthe right way to build dashboard5. limit the use of color to one primary color schemetoo much color on dashboard is confusing. try to limit the use of color to expressing one dimension or one measure. you can effectively add secondary use of color in the same dashboard if that secondary use of color employs more muted color scheme. dashboardthe right way to build dashboard6. use small instructions near the work to make navigation obviousplacing instructions in the title boar of the worksheet that triggers the action is good way to remind people of the availability of the action.use consistent font style and color for these instructions in your dashboards so that your audience learns that style denotes an instruction.place the instruction in tooltips that appear when the use hovers over marks. dashboardthe right way to build dashboard6. use small instructions near the work to make navigation obvious dashboardthe right way to build dashboard7. avoid one-size-fits-all dashboardstrying to make one dashboard serve many purposes will not result in the best performing dashboard.make your dashboards fit the particular purpose of each audience.strive to provide the best possible experience for each audience even if that requires little extra effort. dashboarddashboard dashboardbuilding your dashboard dashboardmain dashboard contentsthe main dashboard includes different objects:items -: worksheet panes (views)item : dashboard title (with descriptive text added)item -: color and shape legendsitem : blank object (used for spacing)item -: text objects (to annotate content and provide weblink)item : vertical layout container (to control alignment of objects) dashboarddashboard dashboarddashboard dashboarddashboard contentsdashboard contains five different objects:items -: worksheet panes (views)item : dashboard title (with descriptive text added)item : text object (to provide instructions)item : url object (containing live website) dashboardcreating new dashboardafter youve created several graphs or worksheets, click new dashboard. dashboarddefining the size of the entire dashboardfixed sizeautomaticrange you need to consider how your dashboard will be displayed. dashboardcreating objects: tiled & floatinga: drag sheet in the dashboardb: create horizontal or vertical object and then drag in the sheetdefault setting: tiledselecting floating option makes objects float over other objects already in the workspace. dashboardusing layout containers to position objects the title and logo alignment can be achieved using the following steps..drag horizontal layout container to the top of the dashboard2.drag the title object (using text in objects) into the horizontal container3.place the logo image file into the right side of the layout container4.adjust the height of the layout container5.position the title and image within the layout container6.associate url with the logo dashboardusing layout containers to position objects dashboardusing layout containers to position objects dashboardfitting the dashboard objects1.ensure that each worksheet pane fits its entire view..create more descriptive titles for each pane..improve graphs and charts dashboardfitting the dashboard objects1.ensure that each worksheet pane fits its entire view. dashboardfitting the dashboard objects2.create more descriptive titles for each pane. dashboardfitting the dashboard objects3.improve graphs and chartsjump to the worksheet dashboardfitting the dashboard objects3.improve graphs and charts dashboardfitting the dashboard objects3.improve graphs and charts dashboardfitting the dashboard objects3.improve graphs and charts dashboardfitting the dashboard objects3.improve graphs and chartsadd filter and drag to proper position dashboardfitting the dashboard objects3.improve graphs and chartsreplace the legend title with text object dashboardfitting the dashboard objects3.improve graphs and charts dashboardadding dynamic title contentright-clickedit title dashboardadding dynamic title contentediting the filter action: title will change as the selected time period changes dashboardembedding live website in dashboardthe shown website changes as the selected country changes. dashboardembedding live website in dashboard1. dashboardactionsgo to url dashboardembedding live website in dashboard2. name and input dynamic url link dashboardembedding live website in dashboard3. add web page object dashboarddashboard actionshighlightonly work for sheets with the same measures dashboarddashboard actionshighlightonly target category is highlighted.attention to the difference between highlight and filter. dashboarddashboard actionsfiltera: tableau public will create filter automatically if you select use as filter. dashboarddashboard actionsfilterb: same as adding highlight and url: dashboardactions dashboarddashboard actionsfilterif we select certain year, distribution and region comparison sheets will only include data for that year. dashboarddashboard actionsrun action on:hoverselectmenu dashboardnavigationdrag the navigation objects to proper place.editbutton. time for exercise!
sm (- semester )understanding dataweek : design workflow iv & building your visualization vdr. chenyang, elva, he ()chenyanghe@cuhk.edu.hk design workflow iv building your visualization iv 02exercise & term project 01design workflow iv part one design workflowdata visualization design is game of decisions. design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe second stage: giving all the things we could show, what will we show? design workflowdesign workflow: effective decisions, efficiently madethe design phase will focus on five layers of visualization design: data representation, interactivity, annotation,color and composition. design workflow1. design workflow2. design workflow3. design workflow4. design workflow5. design workflow6. colorthe role of colorafter annotation, color is the fourth layer of design thinking. the essence of color is determining the appearanceof all your content in way that ensures legibility of those colors that mean something and harmony with any colors used for all the other visible elements of your project -if you can see it (even if that is some notion of blank or emptiness) there is color property and choice attached to it. color can be very scientific and deeply theoretical but in its day-to-day application in data visualization, most of it is common sense and quite intuitive, at least once explained. we must begin with quick explanation of the color model from which this color section is drawn: hsl (hue, saturation and lightness). colorthe role of colorhue is considered the true color. when describing hue, it is normal to use the description of colors of the rainbow, colors that have recognizable distinct names rather than shades or tints of color.with hue there are no shades (adding black), tints (adding whites) or tones (adding grey).hue is considered qualitative color attribute because it is defined by difference and not by scale. colorthe role of colorsaturation defines the purity or colorfulness of hue.this does have scale from intense purecolor (high saturation) through increasing tones (adding grey) to the no-color state of grey (low saturation). in language terms think vivid through to muted. colorthe role of colorlightness refers to the contrast of single hue from dark to light.it is not measure of brightness.it is achieved by adding degrees of white (to create tints) or black (to create shades). colorthe role of colorsaturation&lightness colorthe role of colorthe considerationsfor applying color in data visualization fall into three distinct groups: colordata legibilityquantitative scaleswhen showing quantities, you are seeking to make them as clear and readable as possible the absolute magnitude and relative order of the values displayed. to show quantities, the lightness scale of color from light to dark (known as converging color scheme) is employed as this creates an intuitive sense of light = low values, regular = mid values, dark = high values. if you are keen to bring out detail of two directions of quantitative scale, perhaps range of values either side of zero, diverging color scheme would be used that has two different hues moving from dark to light either side of central neutral (often white) color. colordata legibilityquantitative scalesin the choropleth map, showing the variation in electricity price across switzerland, the darker shades of blue indicate the higher values, the lighter tints the lower prices. this approach makes the viewers perception of the maps values immediate it is quite intuitive to recognize the implication of the general patterns of light and dark shades. colordata legibilityquantitative scales colordata legibilityquantitative scales colordata legibilitycategorical scaleswhen showing nominal categories, you are trying to optimize the clarity of distinctassociations. for example, the tube map or political graphs use different hues to clearly delineate between categories, different underground lines or political parties. ordinal categories will often require colors schemes more aligned with converging or diverging quantitative scales as you are seeking to display some order and direction of relationships between the categorical levels (.. strong, regular, weak or good, average, bad). colordata legibilitycategorical scales colordata legibilitycategorical scalesthe primary motive for the choice of color is to create visible distinction between each unique categorical association, helping the eye to discern the different categories as efficiently and accurately as possible.creating contrast is the main aim of representing nominal data. colordata legibilitycategorical scalescreating contrast is the main aim of representing nominal data. colordata legibilitycategorical scales colordata legibilitycategorical scales colordata legibilitycategorical scales colordata legibilitycategorical scaleswith ordinal data you are still dealing with categories but now they have natural hierarchy or ordering that can be exploited.the primary motive for using color is not only to create visible distinction between each unique category association but also to imply some sense of an orderof magnitude through the color variation. colordata legibilitycategorical scales coloreditorial focusthis is about helping viewers to quickly perceive the most important featuresof data display as distinct from less important. these decisions often transcendthe existing categorical or quantitative classifications. editorial focus is commonly achieved by using saturated color against non-saturated color( vivid hue vs. muted grey) to direct the eye towards features in the data, to what is considered, the most interesting. this is particularly characteristic of explanatory visualization experiences. for example, bolding or adding box around an element of the visualization emphasizes that element and acts as catalyst for the editorial perspective. coloreditorial focus coloreditorial focusin the graphic below, the angle of analysis shows summary of the most prevalent mens names featuring among the ceos of the & companies. as you can see there are more guys named john or david than the percentage of all the women ceos combined. with the emphasis of the analysis on this startling statement of inequality the bar for all women is emphasized in burgundy color, contrasting with the grey bars of all the mens names. notice also that the respective axis and bar value labels are both presented using bold font, which further accentuates this emphasis. it is also editorially consistent with the overriding enquiry of the article. coloreditorial focus coloreditorial focus coloreditorial focus colorfunctional harmonyfunctional harmony helps establish balance and unity through the colorchoices of every other visual property. all features of visualizationhave colorbackground, text, chart apparatus, headings, labels, interactive controls and if all colorsare equally loud then the data will not be heard. coloringfor functional harmony organizesthe entire content hierarchy in way that preserves necessary focus on the data and allows the rest of the visualizationcontent to co-existsympathetically and harmoniously. colorfunctional harmony colorfunctional harmonytypically, white background gives viewers the best chance of being able to accurately perceive the different color attributes used in your data representation and the contrasting nature of your editorial contrast.white or more specifically emptiness is one of your most important options for creating functional meaning for nothingness. the emptiness of uncolored space can be used very effectively to direct the eyes attention. it organizes the relationship between space on page without the need for visible apparatus. colorfunctional harmony colorcolor: what influences our choices?when it comes to making decisions about which colors to use, there are several main factors that influence your choices, informed by the work weve undertaken in the three preparatory stages of the design workflow (formulating your brief, working with data and establishing your editorial thinking). the three principles of good visualization design (trustworthiness, accessible and elegant) are also supplementary influences. colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our briefwhat is the likelihood that any members of your audience will have color efficiencies, such as red-green color blindness (which affects ~% of people)? if you intend to deploy the classic rag traffic lights colors, you may need to alter the type of green and red color combinations or use additional attributes in conjunction to preserve accessibility of meaning. another contextual factor will be the influence of observing corporate or branding color guides. you should also carefully understand how your work will be published and if this might include printing in non-colour. colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our brief colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our brieffor mat: if you are producing something for screen display you will need to set your color output to rgb; if it is for print you will need cmyk. additionally, when you are preparing work for print, running off plenty of proofs before finalizing design is imperative. what looks like perfect color palette on screen may not ultimately look the same when printed.toolsforselectingcolorcombinations:colorbrewer2.0iwanthue colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our briefsetting: for digital displays, the conditions in which the work will be consumed will have some influence over the choice between light and dark backgrounds. if your work is intended for consumption in light environment, lighter backgrounds tend to be more fitting; likewise darker backgrounds will work best for consuming in darker settings. color rules and identities: in some organizations there are style guidelines or branding identities that require the strict use of only certain color options. colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our briefpurpose mapcolor is the first thing we notice as viewers when looking at visualization, so your choices will play huge part in setting the visible tone of voice.how you define your thinking across the vertical dimension of your purpose map will therefore have an influence on your color thinking.along the horizontal dimension, the main influencing consideration will be desire to offer an explanatory experience. colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our brief colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our briefin the graphic below (urban forest, by oom creative), looking at the health of trees around the city of melbourne, australia, the color palette draws from the metaphor of leaf health, from the greens representing good health, moving through to yellows and oranges for increasingly declining conditions. utilizing these color metaphors, though, will only work well if your audience genuinely does understand their implied meaning. conversely, you need to be aware and sensitive to the potential of certain colors, in certain subject or cultural contexts, having negative connotation. colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our brief colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our briefideas and inspirationin the process of sketching out your ideas and capturing thoughts about possible sources of influence, maybe there were already certain colors you had identified as being consistent with your thinking about this subject? additionally, you might have already identified some colors you wish to avoid using. colorcolor: what influences our choices?formulating our brief colorcolor: what influences our choices?working with data (examination)the characteristics of your data will naturally have huge impact on the decisions you make around data legibility.firstly, the typeof data you are displaying (primarily nominal vs all other types) will require different color treatment, as explained.secondly, the rangeof categorical color associations (limits on discernible hues) and the range and distribution of quantitative values (numbers of divisions and definition of the intervals across your classification scale) will be directly shaped by the work you did in the examination stage. colorcolor: what influences our choices?working with data (examination)it is often the case when thinking about color classifications that you may need to revisit the data transformation actions to find new ways of grouping your data to create better-fit quantitative value classifications or to look at ways of grouping your categories. for the latter, actions such as combining less important categories in an other bin to reduce the variability or eliminating certain values from your analysis may be necessary. colorcolor: what influences our choices?working with data (examination)for categorical associations, once you've exceeded allocating colors to + distinct categories, thereafter there are no more sufficiently unique colors available, only subtle variations, which will make it increasingly harder for the reader to follow the associations in your chart displays. you may, therefore, need to think about coloring the most important and transform your data to group the remaining categories into some collective other category. colorcolor: what influences our choices?working with data (examination) colorcolor: what influences our choices?establishing our editorial thinkingwhat things do you want to emphasize or direct the eye towards (focus)?data representationcertain chart type choices will already include color as an encoded attribute. colordesign principlestrustworthy designensure that your color choices are faithful to the shape of your data and the integrity of your insights. if something looks meaningful it should be, otherwise it will confuse or deceive.accessible designonce youve committed color to mean something preserve the consistency of association for as long as possible. be aware of the sensitivities around visual accessibility and positive/negative color connotations.elegant designthe perception of colors is relative so the unity of your choices needs to be upheld. ensure that you can justify every dot of color used and, ultimately, rely on your own judgment to determine when your final palette feels right. color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule1:usecolorwhenyoushould,notwhenyoucan color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule2:utilizecolortogrouprelateddatapoints percentage change in population in the usa from . the divergent color scheme made of two hues (red and blue) with an inflection point at zero is more suitable than sequential color scheme. color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule3:usecategoricalcolorsforunrelateddata color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule4:categoricalcolorshavefeweasilydiscerniblebins color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule5:changeofcharttypecanoftenreducetheneedforcolors color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule6:whennottousesequentialcolorschemewhenplaceawayfromeachotherlikeinascatterplot,thesubtledifferencesincolorofasequentialpalettebecomedifficulttograsp. color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule7:chooseappropriatebackgroundperceivedcolorofanobjectisdependentnotonlyonthecoloroftheobjectitselfbutalsoofitsbackground.differentobjectsgroupedbysamecolorshouldalsohavesamebackground.thisingeneralmeansthatvariationsinthebackgroundcolormustbeminimized. color8rulesforoptimaluseofcolorrule8:noteveryonecanseeallcolors colordesign principles 02building your visualization iv part two comparing categoriestimedistributionbuilding your visualization geospatialpart-to-wholequalitativerelationship part-to-wholethese charts show how the shares of some amount relate to the total.the most popular and familiar graph is the pie chart, which introduces variety of perceptual challenges.alternatives: treemap, subburst part-to-wholedisdain for pie charts pervades the entire field of data visualization.reason: we have hard time discerning exact quantities when they are visualized as slices of the pie.yet, research has shown that people are more attracted to curves than to objects with sharp points. part-to-whole part-to-wholewhenmakingpiecharts:theslicesmustsumto100percentoratleastsomesortoftotal.whenyouarrangetheslicesofapiechart,agoodruleofthumbistoorderthemfromlargesttosmallestbeginningatthe12-oclockposition.howaboutsharesofatotalbyagegroup? part-to-whole part-to-wholeif your goal is to help your reader make clear and accurate determinations about the data, the pie chart is not the best choice. part-to-wholeif your goal is to help your reader make clear and accurate determinations about the data, the pie chart is not the best choice. part-to-wholeif your goal is to help your reader make clear and accurate determinations about the data, the pie chart is not the best choice. part-to-wholethe case for pie charts1. when the values of the slice or slices sums to one of round numbers ( percent, percent, and percent), for which the angle is familiar. these cases let you easily focus your readers attention on three or maybe four slices. part-to-wholethe case for pie charts2. when you are focusing your readers attention on single valuethe true part-to-whole relationship.it will almost always be difficult for your reader to discern specific quantities or compare slices, but if you want when to understand general difference in magnitude or focus on single slice, the pie chart is appropriate. part-to-wholethe case for pie chartsexample: lets say you have received one hundred donations, and bit more than half of all money you have raised has come from few, very large gifts of $ million or more. part-to-wholetreemapthe treemapdivides sections of square or rectangles into groups to illustrate hierarchy or part-to-whole relationship. treemapis squarifiedversion of pie chart. part-to-wholetreemap part-to-wholetreemaphierarchies are easy to visualize in the treemapbecause subsections can be labeled and embedded within the parent group.you can also add other encodings to the treemaplike color. part-to-wholesunburst diagramif you want to show the proportions of parts to whole at several levels in hierarchy, you might use what is called sunburst diagram.in the example, each ring in sunburst corresponds to different level in the hierarchy, and the slices of each ring refer to the different subgroups. part-to-wholesunburst diagram part-to-wholenightingale chartthe first and most famous of these was created by florence nightingale to visualize soldier casualties during the crimean war.each slice represents the total deaths in each month. cause of death is broken down into three categories: deaths from wounds in battle (pink); deaths from other causes (black); and deaths from diseases (blue). part-to-wholenightingale chart part-to-wholenightingale chartwe can think of the nightingale as pie chart in which the slices have been expanded in different directions.the area of each slice represents its value relative to the whole, and the slices are arranged along the time dimension.the nightingale chart therefore shows both changes over time and part-to-whole relationship. part-to-wholenightingale chart part-to-wholenightingale chartexample: part-to-wholenightingale chartexample: part-to-wholesummary pie charts are the default visualization of part-to-whole relationships because theyre familiar, easy to make and easy to read.limit the number of slices in your pie charts and remember that right angles are familiar to our eyes and brains. alternatives: treemap, sunburst diagram, nightingale chart part-to-whole 03start your visualization part three start your visualization when trying to make sense of total expenses (the whole), we often aggregate them by department (the part) to see how much each department adds to overall expenses. part-to-wholethe total amount of each departments expenses is difficult to translate into proportional measure (that is, some percentage of % in total).when we sort the expenses by amount and express the amounts percentages, the part-to-whole and ranking relationships spring to life. part-to-whole part-to-wholepareto chartswhen we examine values that are ranked by size, it is also revealing to examine the cumulative contribution of parts to the whole, starting with the largest and working sequentially to the smallest.paretoprinciple(/20rule):formanyoutcomes,roughly80%ofconsequencescomefrom20%ofcauses(thevitalfew). part-to-wholepareto chartsto construct pareto charts, you simply rank the items by size from largest to smallest, display the individual values as bars, and display the cumulative values from one item to the next as line. part-to-wholepareto charts part-to-wholepareto chartsgrouping categorical items in an ad hoc mannerthe ability to group categorical items in an ad hoc manner is critical, especially when analyzing part-to-whole and ranking relationships.for example, the pareto chart in the previous analysis includes several reasons for the return of laptops on the right side that dont add up to much.in such case, we might want to lump everything from not internet compatible through the rest of the list into single item called something like other, resulting in the following display. part-to-wholepareto charts part-to-wholepareto chartsstep1:sorta standard bar chart part-to-wholepareto chartsstep2:create dual-axis combination chart part-to-wholepareto chartsstep3:running total of the line part-to-wholepareto chartsstep4:use the secondary calculation to create the percentagesecondary calculation is the table calculation of table calculation part-to-wholehalf of the total donation flows into six categories. part-to-wholepareto chartsstep5:to build version that tracks the percent of running total of results on the -axis by the percent of running total of causes on the -axisy-axis: gift amountx-axis: count distinct of id (right click while dragging prospect id to the column; also drag prospect id to details) part-to-wholepareto chartsstep6:change both and into running total and compute using prospect id part-to-wholepareto chartsstep7:sort the id by the measure we are evaluating in descending order part-to-wholepareto chartsstep8:add secondary calculation to both and part-to-wholepareto chartsstep9:add reference linesanalyticsconstant linechange values part-to-wholepareto chartsour data does not follow the / rule. part-to-wholepareto chartsstep10:to isolate the top performing quantilecreate calculated field using:drag the field to colorright-click the field and change computing using as the id part-to-wholepareto charts time for exercise!
machine learning for artists week threematricesleastsquaresregression in machine learning, we often represent and manipulate vectors by arranging them as rows or columns of matrices. matrix is data structure whose entries are indexed by rowsand columns. if isamatrix,wedenotean entry by writing (, )or [ ][ ], where iis the row and jis the column. imagesource: wikipediaan nmatrix has mrows and columns: mandnarethedimensionsofthematrix. nis theshapeofthe matrix the basic operations on matrices are the same as thoseonvectors:matrix addition scalarmultiplication matrix addition source: scalar multiplication source: teachoo twowaysofthinkingaboutmatriceswe can think of matrix as: deviceto store information about different vectors. however: matrix can itself be understood as vector.matrices are subject to the same operations as vectors: additionscalar multiplicationthespaceofm nmatrices is vector space. rectangular vs. square matricesin rectangular matrix, the number of rows is not equal to the number of columns. ifthematrixisnotrectangular,itissquare. anotherimportantoperation ismatrix multiplication: the multiplicationofonematrix(not by scalar but) by anothermatrix. matrix multiplication source: matrixmultiplication computes the dot productsbetween row vectors in the first matrix andcolumn vectors in the second matrix. (the concept of dot product will be discussed later in the course). source: inner dimension agreementthe multiplication of matrix aby matrix is often written as ab. multiplication betweenmatricesa andbisonly defined if the inner dimensions of aand agree. if ais nandbispxqthenabis only defined whenn=.in other words, when the number of columns of = the number of rows of aandbdonthavetohavethesameshape.the outer dimensions are not required to agree. shape of the product of two matricestheproductofamx nandbnxpisamatrixamxp . the number of rows ofab =the number ofrowsof . the number of columnsofab = the number of columns of . in other words, the dimensions of abare the outer dimensions of aand . additional properties of matrix multiplicationmatrix multiplication is sensitive to the order of the matrices. (it is not commutative). matrixmultiplication, however, is associative. transpose of matrix the transposeof matrix ais written as ator sometimes as . athas the same values as , but columns and rows are exchanged: at(, ) = (,)if ahas shape , athas shape . exerciseifais rectangular matrix:what is the shape of at?what is the shape of ata ?what can you say in general about the shapes of these two matrices? symmetric matrix matrix is symmetric if and only if = at. if amatrixissymmetric,itissquare.but not allsquarematricesaresymmetric. diagonal matrix thediagonal entries of square matrix aare those entries of the form (, ),..,those entrieswith the same rownumber and column number. diagonal matrixisasquarematrixwhereallnon-diagonalentries are zero.every diagonal matrix is symmetric, but not every symmetric matrix is diagonal. transposeof diagonal matrix if ais diagonal, at= identity matrix the identity matrix in nis diagonal matrix of shape nwhosediagonalentriesareallones.this matrix functions like the number in ordinary multiplication. am nin = am nsource: identity matrixlet us check together in class that:if 3x2matrix ais multiplied by i2 , the result is simply . matrix divisionit is possible to divide matrix aby scalar (number) .simplymultiplythematrixby1/.thispossibilityissubjecttotherestrictionthatacannotbe0.divisionby0isnotdefined.is it possible to divide matrix by another matrix? matrix divisionis it possible to divide matrix by another matrix? no. matrix division is not defined. butinsomecaseswe can multiply matrix by the inverse of another matrix.multiplication by the inverse is analogous to division. let us see how this works. letusthinkfirstofdivision between numbers. we canwritethedivision of two numbers /basamultiplicationa (/)we can also write it as the multiplication of one number by the inverse of the other: -1the inverse ofanumberbisanothernumberb-,suchthatb -= - = 1therefore:-= / inverse of matrixthink of how we might define the inverse of matrix in way that is analogous to the inverse of number. inverse of matrixbyanalogywiththe multiplicative inverse of number, wecandefinethe inverseof an nmatrix as another matrix -, such that: an na-1n = -1n nan = in theinverseis only defined for square matrices. rectangular matrix has no inverse. example: the inverse of matrix whatistheinverseof matrix ?theinverse -1iscomputedasfollows, using thedeterminantad bc. in-class exercise let us check in class that -12x 2a2x = i2x thefollowingisalsotrue(but we will not check it in class): an na-1n = in singular matricesamatrixthatisnotsquarehas no inverse. butevensquare matricesaresometimesnotinvertible. square matrix is not invertible when its determinant is zero because:matrix inversion requires division by the determinant and division by zero is not defined. amatrix whose determinant is zero is saidtobesingular. we are now going to apply some of these ideas to machine learning problem. recall the university admissions problem from week one. let us briefly review the task. family oflinearmodels source: univariate linear model in matrix form source: univariate linear model in matrix form call these matrices , , and .matrices and are column vectors. we can then express our equations as contains the parameters of our linear model. these are the unknown values we wish to learn. univariate linear model in matrix form we can try to solve for in equation the naturalway of doing this would be:= -1ycan we do this? why not? to acquire an intuitive understanding of the method we are going to us, let us pretend that there is solution and multiply both sides of by the same matrix xt. why wouldwewanttodothis? linear least squareswe can in most cases invert xand solve for .the expression(xtx)-1xt is known as the moore-penrose pseudo-inverse. this technique is useful whenever we need the inverse of matrix that is not square. this method of computing the parameters of the linear model thatbestapproximatesthe data is known as linear least squares. we have no solved the systemofequations that we started with, since this system has no solution. what wearedoingis searching for values of the parameters in that yield the closest approximation to our actual outputs. linear least squares solves this problem.source: general linear model in matrix form the problem we have been working with has only one feature per sample. alinearmodelwithnsamplesandmfeaturespersamplewould look like this. question: how manyparametersdoesthisfamily of models have? general linear model in matrix form this family of models has + 1parameters. thepreviousslideisnotcompletelyaccurate,since such system of equations cannot be solved. soletusadda vector of errors to make our equations realistic.. what wewishtoachieveistomake the squared sum of the errors as small as possible. let us now try to apply this method to visual problem: given asinput an image of facethat is missing the lower half, train linear model to outputa realistic image of the whole face. themodelwe want should have learnt to fillin the missing part of the face.
lect 1introduction dr alvaro cassinellioffice: m6028email: acassine@cityu.edu.hk sm3610hardware hacking sem / word about me alvaro cassinelli, associate professorschool creative media, director augmented materiality lab (m6040) the art of science ...... the science of art what is this course about?"hardware hackingmeans modifying piece of existing electronics to use it in way that it was not necessarily intended -sparkfun hacking, social practice artmedia arts, device art... ... and just because its fun! ...science and tech tools recycling, repurposing... empowerment, technology appropriation if you are going to create, you cannot just be an end user!learning by breaking, learning by makingthinking out of the box, playingwith the world ( kid fresh look at things)reflectingon the role of technology in our society, repurposing, sustainability, etc ? nothing goes to waste creative repurposing ingenious ideas tv--gone universal remote controlmitch altman, 2015thetv--gone universal remote control allows you to turn virtually any tv on or off. we prefer off. hackers can express societal concerns and promote critical thinking image fulgurator, (golden nika) julius von bismarkhacker or artist? strandbeeststheo jansen (note that it is not always about electronics!)art of hacking &art fromhacking the transparency grenade ()julian oliver, daniel rozin, woddenmirror tool for new media artists!(in way, art is hacking the world to reveal or create new realities) rattenkoeniga. cassinelli hacking or enhancing? ratchairs, 2015alvaro cassinelli & al. hacking & new media arts torobots-generative garden . cassinelli, tokyo, scorelight[~]. cassinelli -synesthetic musicalinstrument [, excellence prize / entertainment / japan media art festival] light arrays[]. cassinelli & .wildefashion, wearables there are many ways to hack electronics; this course will be mostlyabout creating and hackingusing microcontrollersthe only way to do it is to do it-merce cunninghamhardware hacking resourcestools and techniques: digital fabricationphysical computingcommunities:diy and maker movements, fablabsforums, tutorials hardware hacking knowledge & physical computingsensors + actuators + microcontroller embedded software (intelligent objects -including robots)human computer interfaces (gesture, computer vision, physical interfaces with software) internet of things (connected objects), etc... goes hand in hand with digital fabrication techniques (laser cutting, 3d printing) physicalcomputing?from light switch to alexa...from an if brick tothe code of final fantasy... camera stabilization, camera motion (robot arm), drone-cameras... ... and/or browse for artists working in the field of media artscheck more examples here: mediumcomplex sensors and lights game controllers motors, wheelsrobots, dronesiot (network connected objects)wearablesmedia arts, large scale, public installations (big logistics)serious prototyping for commercial, medical or scientific products what can you do with physical computing?simple sm3610 (hardware hacking)sm2716 (this class) prototypical physical computing projects?create.arduino.cc/projecthub/projects/tags/art the list is... so youwant to build electronic stuff youll learn some bricks of electronics ???what are all these colorful little things??? what will you learn?() simple electronic circuits, sensorsand actuators= body of your system() the arduino microcontroller = brain of your system example (by l6 you will be able to do this sort of things) () ...and shields (electronics modules with some processing) ...they supercharge the capacities of the arduino! examples of shield uses when using shield, building project becomes easier, and more centered about programming, thanks to many contributors that have written useful libraries. powerful actuators (motors, lights)inertial motion sensors (drone/camera stabilization)sound processing, image processing.machine learning: face and voice, recognition, etc. communication with other devices & internet() between micros (wireless or not), iot...() with computers and smartphones....() with other hardwareelectronic appliances, car, houses, city (smart city), biosensors... () ...and with the internet in general (social media, webpages, dashboards, etc) the arduino needs little power to function. when the sensors/actuators dont need too much power, the project can be cordless.battery power... resourcesarduino official website: resources: diy sites: -instructables: arduino: makezine.com/category/technology/wearables/websites of physical computing shops: seeedstudio, adafruit, sparkfun, etc...wheretobuy(local): maker space:-scm studio workshops(scm) -create!(cityulibrary)hk workshop/coworking space-makerbay (tsuen wan)-makerhive(kennedy town) books checkworks from previous students[to update] skatelight tech elephant robot plants decibel album electronic zither mini keys basketball hoops oo cakebot borrow your course material kits at the production center (m6086) before friday : pm in week1 you need it for every class keep it for the whole semesterreturn it at the end (before dec.)next lecture: basic components and simple circuits arduino kits and basic electronic components new components added (some components might be not included) piezo transducer (x1) diode(1n400x)rgb ledtransistor(2n2222a)solenoidir led emitter ir led receiverpiezo transducerkitusbpower port extra resistors1kresistor 5220resistor 51mresistor 210kresistor if components/tools for in-class tasks are broken or missing .visit production center (m6086) to get another one or ask your instructor in class2.if production center does not have any backup, please let your course instructosknow in class..if 9v batteries in your kits dont have enough power, ask your course instructor in class.
weeks only to the assignment- presentation!!start working!!! measurement:read the plantkeningzhuschool of creative mediacity university of hong kong color, weight, size, etc. light dependentsensor/photoresistor (resistance changed bylight)photoresistor gives high resistance in darkness. when it is exposed in light, its resistance drops and become goodconductor. connecting light sensor to arduino code to watch the input value with plantyou can put the light sensor near the leaf to record the lighting condition through out the day. air moisture/humidity sensor (dht11) for measuring humidity they use the humidity sensing component which has two electrodes with moisture holding substrate between them. so as the humidity changes, the conductivity of the substrate changes or the resistance between these electrodes changes. this change in resistance is measured and processed by the ic which makes it ready to be read by microcontroller. soil moisture sensorthe soil moisture sensor uses capacitance to measure dielectric permittivity of the surrounding medium. in soil, dielectric permittivity is function of the water content. the sensor creates voltage proportional to the dielectric permittivity, and therefore the water content of the soil. the sensor averages the water content over the entire length of the sensor. there is cm zone of influence with respect to the flat surface of the sensor, but it has little or no sensitivity at the extreme edges.the soil moisture sensor is used to measure the loss of moisture over time due to evaporation and plant uptake,evaluateoptimum soil moisture contents for various species of plants,monitorsoil moisture content to control irrigation in greenhouses and enhance bottle biology experiments. analog temperature sensor (tmp36) chip that tells you what the ambient temperature is.it uses the fact as temperature increases, the voltage across diode increases at known rate.by precisely amplifying the voltage change, it is easy to generate an analogsignal that is directly proportional to temperature. sounds complicated eh? the good news is all that complex calculation is doneinsidethe chip -it just spits out the temperature, ready for you to use! technical characteristics of tmp36size:to- package (about ." ." .") with three leadsprice:$. at the adafruit shoptemperature range:-40c to 150c / -40f to 302foutput range:.1v (-40c) to .0v (150c) but accuracy decreases after 125cpower supply:.7v to .5v only, . ma current drawdatasheet linear mapping from signal to temperature temp in = [(voutin mv) -]/ testing tmp36 example: grow it yourself (giy) flexible vibration sensor flexible vibration sensor (piezosensor)piezosensor is very sensitive to vibration and movement, and generate output signal.the voltage range of signal that piezosensor can produce can be from few microvolts to thousands volts, so we need large value resistor to limit current and reduce the voltage through the circuit. we get the voltage of these two pointsfor the input to arduino connect the sensor to arduino the value of this potentiometer/resistor should be very big!! >500k ohms codevoid setup(){serial.begin();}void loop(){intvalue = analogread();serial.println(value);delay();}open the serial monitor to see the number changing when you shake/flip the film accelerometeraccelerometers are devices that measure acceleration, which is the rate of change of the velocityof an object.they measure in meters per second squared (/s2) or in -forces (). single -force for us here on planet earth is equivalent to . /s2, but this does vary slightly with elevation (and will be different value on different planets due to variations in gravitational pull).accelerometers are useful for sensing vibrations in systems or for orientation applications. it also measures the xyz orientation attach it on the leaf the shape/size changes the science behind plant could be sensitive to human-touch or more.. touch: enhancing touch interaction on humans, screens, liquids, and everyday objectstouch proposes novel swept frequency capacitive sensing technique that can not only detect touch event, but also recognize complex configurations of the human hands and body. changing signal passing through the circuit between the send and the receive pins. diy touch touch circuit photo resistorresistorresistorcapacitorsdiodeinductorsarduino pin 9sensor pointput in to the mediumarduino pin a0 demo how to make water glass touch-sensitivehardware put in soil put in water3.3k resistor 1m resistor 10k resistor .8mh inductor0.01uf capacitor() 100pf talking plant lets come back to mimosa plant plant-plant conversation how to store this data?arduino to processingsimple visualizationexcelprocessinghow to transfer it to 3d visualization?we will talk about it on friday! if you want to borrow plantspikeboxemail keninzhu@cityu.edu.hkone group borrows one set at time.
copyright reserved: all lecture notes and related materials are solely used for this course. please do not upload the materials to any unauthorized websites or distribute to other parties without my permission. ge1121 the japanese way of tea: history , arts, architecture and philosophy week : introduction on the syllabus and course content ( - minutes) dr. melody chong history of tea in china and japan ( week ) what is the japanese way of tea ? the arrival of tea in japan and early development history of tea in china guest lecture (week ) demonstration of song tea style in china history of tea in japan (week ) shuko(juko) and joo, the creation of chanoyu sen rikyuand his times (through movie clips) grand masters and the iemotosystem an overview and history of tea in china and japan an overview way chadoor sado/ chanoyu establishment the japanese tea ceremony (end of 15thcentury~) import of tea -china, the tang dynasty (8th century entered the realm of poetry -> polite amusements)* development and evolution (8th16th centuries) creation -japan (16thcentury -the philosophy of tea aestheticism + ethics and religion in connection the whole point of man and nature) okakura () source: source: http :// with no tea or with too much tea? (use as slang expression to describe people) cake-tea (boiled) powdered -tea (whipped) leaf-tea (steeped)* marked the distinct emotional impulses of the tang, the song (or sung) and the ming dynasties of china okakura () tang song ming history philosophy architecture arts the japanese tea ceremony the development of the zen ritual the song tea reached japan in zen master eisai (or eisai -zenji) who went to china to study the southern zen school okakura () lao-zi(the founder of taoism) tao (way) literally means path, also translated as the way, the absolute, the law, nature, supreme reason, the mode ( okakura, ) (embodying the dao) the dao that can be trodden is not the enduring and unchanging dao. the name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name. (conceived of as) having no name, it is the originator of heaven and earth; (conceived of as) having name, it is the mother of all things. always without desire we must be found, if its deep mystery we would sound; but if desire always within us be, its outer fringe is all that we shall see. under these two aspects, it is really the same; but as development takes place, it receives the different names. together we call them the mystery. where the mystery is the deepest is the gate of all that is subtle and wonderful. source: http ://ctext.org/dao -de-jing chashitsu tetsu this gorgeous teahouse was built in the forest and is another masterpiece of fujimori. chashitsu tetsu was built in yamanashi prefecture ( ) in , the teahouse in the photo is concealed in the cherry blossoms and visitors are able to enjoy the beauty of sakura - fubuki ( /sakura blizzard) during spring in late march and early april.sources: stuck_08.jpg -fujimori -domki-na- drzewach/ japanese history and the development of tea culture japan prehistoric japan (, bc)nara period (-) yayoiperiod heian period (-) kofun period (ca. ad -)kamakura period (-) source: japan muromachi period (-)meiji period (-) azuchi- momoyama period (-)taisho period (-) edo period (-)showa period (-) heisei period ( to present) japan prehistoric japan (, bc)nara period (-) tang dynasty (ad ) yayoiperiod heian period (-) five dynasties and ten kingdoms (ad ) songdynasty (ad ) kofun period (ca. ad -)kamakura period (-) centralized government, with its capital in what is now the city of nara, was established under chinese-style system of law codes known as the ritsuryo system. fujiwara family, gained control of the government, ruling on behalf of the emperor. the chinese -style culture that had dominated the nara period was undergoing process of japanization the tairafamily, warrior family that had come to dominate the imperial court. minamoto no yoritomo set up military -style government at kamakura -the kamakura shogunate1 japan muromachi period (-)meiji period (-) azuchi- momoyama period (-)taisho period (-) edo period (-)showa period (-) heisei period ( to present) period of "warring states." more plebeian forms of culture began to emerge at the merchant class; chinese - style ink painting, and in theater noh drama and kyogen; the pursuits of tea ceremony and flower arrangement were born. increased contact with europeans; the emerging merchant classes in the towns; the tea master sen no rikyudeveloped the tea ceremony into an aesthetic discipline that is known as the way of tea. () nara period (-)imported tea from china tang dynasty to japan () heian period (-) ()kamakura (-) and early muromachi period (-)limited to noble class only imperial court tea culture tocha(tea fight/contest) temple tea developed () mid-latemuromachi period formation of chanoyu --murata shuko/juko( - ), takeno joo( -) () azuchi-momoyama period (-)establishment of wabi-cha by sen rikyu(-) history of tea culture in china lu yu the classic of tea3 scrolls and chapters remains the definitive work on the origins and culture, cultivation, processing and ways of preparing and drinking tea in ancient asia tea had harmony and order, lu ywrote. and he stressed the need to slow down when making and drinking it, to pay strict attention to each step and utensil in the process, and infuse the entire undertaking with beauty. it' salient wisdom even or especially in the fast -moving world of today . koehler () source: -it-slow-and-other- lessons-from-the-oldest-tea-book-in-the-world the tea plant is prime flora of southern china. it can grow from meter in height to few tens of meters. in the areas of bashan (in the east of modern day sichuan province) and xiazhou (west of hubei province) some tea trunks are thick enough for two grown men to hug and the only way to harvest the tea is to cut the branches. [ ] source in chinese: history.ihns.ac.cn/books/tea%20book.htm "the tea plant is beautiful as well as beneficial tree of the southern regions," is how the cha ching begins. it is work that only an author personally familiar with every aspect of tea growing and manufacture could have written, as witness its contents: .origins of tea .tools for plucking and processing tea .methods of plucking and processing tea .the utensils required for preparing and serving tea .preparing tea by boiling .the art of appreciating tea .famous tea drinkers and tea stories .tea-producing districts .preparing and serving tea in simplified manner .directions for creating illustrations of tea procedures source: .html chapter : utensils ( ) this chapter describes twenty six items used in the brewing and drinking of tea..crushing block ( ) .brazier ( ) .charcoal basket ( ) .charcoal mallet ( ) .fire chopsticks ( ) .cauldron ( ) .cauldron stand ( ) .tea tongs ( ) .paper wallet ( ) .crushing roller ( ) .sieve box ( ) .tea holder ( ) .water vessel ( ) .water filter bag ( ) .gourd scooper ( ) .bamboo tongs ( ) .salt container ( ) .boiled water vessel ( ) .bowl () .bowl basket ( ) .brush ( ) .water basin ( ) .spent tea basin ( ) .tea cloth ( ) .utensil table ( ) .utensil basket ( ) () () () () () () [ ]() soource: chapter : the history of tea this chapter describes the origin of tea which was discovered by shennong chapter : lu yu was the pioneer who first popularized the idea that tea could be way of life beyond just beverage and with medicinal use. people can achieve spiritual mind or meditation through drinking tea. and thus he says in his book, this is for people who have high moral and ethical standards. source: file:///:/%20courses/%20ge1121/%20sem%20b_2017/%20book% 0about%20tea.pdf source: source: song china content: the quality of tea and the composition of tea poems color, smell (odor), taste and new tea the skills of making tea (the whole process using different utensils) (liu, ) .what is tea ? . distinguish different types of chinese tea . brief history of tea in china (particularly on song dynasty) . brief introducing chinese tea utensils . tea particularly on song dynasty (.ethe way of tea drinking, the varieties of tea, the literature of tea and the supervising organizations had all undergone great breakthroughs in the song era, , etc) . demonstration on chinese tea brewing and tasting with students . & early history of tea culture in japan ( murai, ) during the nara period (-) and heian period ( -), many envoys were sent to tang -dynasty china. on several occasions, these envoys were accompanied by japans leading buddhist scholars, including saicho, kukai and other envoys of scholar - monks. these buddhist monks brought back with them tea seeds from tang china, which are said to be the origin of tea in japan. (murai, ) - [] kukai saicho the tea imported from tang dynastic (china) to japan was called dancha(brick tea). tea leaves pressed into bricks gained popularity at the japanese imperial court in kyoto. medication + meditation (murai, ) heian period ( -), emperor saga is said to have encouraged the drinking and cultivation of tea in japan. tea drinking was first referred to in japanese literature in in the nihon koki (later chronicles of japan), recording that eichu , - invited emperor saga to bonshakuji temple, where he was served tea. at this time, tea was extremely valuable and only drunk by imperial court nobles and buddhist monks. (murai, ) heian and early kamakura period ( -) hundred or more priests from various temples gather together at the imperial palace to pray for the well being of the nation and the emperor ( murai, ). japan: the 12th century ~ song dynasty ( -) the method of preparing and drinking tea changed brick tea powdered tea in the early kamakura period (- ), japanese zen priest eisai( (-, studied in song china) brought tea seedlings and tea methods back to japan, and wrote kissayojoki (preservation of health through drinking tea, in ). (murai, ) kozan - ji temple in toganoo priest myoewas given few seeds of tea plant by zen master eisai and planted them in the temple' ground, launching the spread of tea cultivation throughout the country. called true tea ( honcha), was favored over the lesser/false tea ( hicha). (murai, ) in the end of kamakura period ( -) the toganoo produce (later also to uji) true/real tea tea then became the object of competitions for the noble class, who had to distinguish honcha(real tea, seeds brought by eisai) from hicha(other lesser/false tea). ( game originated from song dynasty ) source: muromachi period ( -) zen buddhism --went on to have profound effect on all aspects of national life, from government and commerce to the arts and education. the spread of tea new vogue renga(linked verse), poetry gatherings, tea -tasting competitions ( tocha)source: (murai, ) waka poetry gathering depicted in the bokiekotoba picture scroll. . nishi honganji kyoyo (see weekly reading ) (murai, ) to be continued genshitsu , sen and soshitsu sen. eds. (). urasenke chado textbook. japan: tankosha . koehler, . (). sip it slowly, and other lessons from the oldest tea book in the world. (website article). available at: -it-slow-and-other -lessons -from-the-oldest - tea-book-in-the-world. retrieved dec . () : (liu, . . the study of tea culture and utensils in song dynasty, in chinese). okakura , . (). the book of tea. available at: http:// -texts.com/bud/tea.htm retrieved december . retrieved dec . murai , . (). brief history of tea in japan. soshitsu sen xv (ed), translated by alfred birnbaum. chanoyu : the urasenke tradition of tea. ny: john weatherhill . tanaka, seno and tanaka, sendo . (). the tea ceremony. japan: kodansha. the metropolitan museum of arts. muromachi period. available at: http:// . retrieved jan . the virtual museum of japanese arts. japanese history. available at: - japan.org/museum/historyofjp/histjp.html . retrieved dec . for weeks - murai , . (). brief history of tea in japan. in . sen. (ed.). chanoyu : the urasenke tradition of tea, pp. -. new york, ny : weatherhill . (see also chapter , isbn. ) library semi -closed section tanimura , . (). tea of the warrior in the late tokugawa period. in . morgan (ed,). japanese tea culture : art, history , and practice , pp. -. new york, ny : routledgecurzon . (see also chapter . isbn. ) library semi -closed section and library - book sen, . (). the japanese way of tea. honolulu: university of hawaii press. (see chapter : rikyu and the fruition of the way of tea, pp. -) library -book
. signage and way- nding: place-making, active and passive way- nding signage is kind of environmental graphic design mainly to communicate information visually. because of this purpose, the signage is always imbued with meaning and became shared language among the people in the society. . it is signage, but not an egd! traffic light of course is used to represent the signal whether one can proceed without hitting (or be hit) by car. while in places without car, such as venice, it become meaningless and the sign is not applicable to the environment . therefore, egd should be matched with the context of place, as place is considered as an environment. ii. indication: place-signi cation the road sign in paris is different from hong kong, for example, though they contains similar meaning for some general issues, the signage has to be contextual as the ultimate intent is to let the reader know what it means, or at least allow the majority getting the content of the signage. also, in order to let the readers grab the information fast, signage has to be clear and reduced to minimal style without any un-necessary details or information. iii. indication: identity same rule as ii. above, the identity (content) of the signage information must be rich to let the readers know all they need. therefore, the identity has to be gured out without even adding texts descriptions. (for example, the islamic signage for woman always contain mask around their head.) iv. active and passive way- nding passive way-finding: passive wayfinding elements are the environment itself and the built-in cues that provide intuitive information: self-evident entrances, logical pathways and predictable destinated locations. in other words, readers can be passive to receive the information without too much thinking or understanding. active way-finding: active way-finding tools are the elements we add to an environment to facilitate orientation and successful wayfinding to supplement the passive environment map directories, directional signs and color-coding systems, and focus itself. signage and way- nding . signage and way-finding: place-making, active and passive way-finding/ . signage pyramid model: graphics, hardware and information / .navigation: message hierarchy and proximity/ . pictorial information: symbols and diagrams signage. place-making.interpretative. sea land desert = environmental graphic design (egd)what is egd? understanding gi hsimilar object like rope, snake and river ow. because the second type is train process in nature, the active way-finding process can be transformed into the passive type if one is get used to them. passive active1. signage and way- nding: place-making, active and passive way- nding . active and passive way- nding (example) active way- nding: retail to design good way-finding signage also needs to match or contrast with the surroundings, the competitors. in order to stand out from the others, you have to take the decisions whether you want to look alike or alienated with special shape and color. (or even lighting) passive way- nding: nature the element of light, breeze and sound create leading signage for the nature visitors. although it lacks certainty, it does provide guidance in chaotic scenario with high ambiguity of information. in certain extreme case, it does play an important role for the lost who strive to be found. . signage pyramid model: graphics, hardware and information signage is kind of environmental graphic design mainly to com municate information visually. because of this purpose, the signage is lways imbued with meaning and became shared language among the people in he society. you can always read signage as system of information , graphics and hardware. . information - information to be displayed - what are the words and how to present?- where and to whom it will be displayed? . graphic - typology, symbols, arrows and color - all aim to encode the information- layout: how to emphasize the messages and establish visual identity- how they are applied to the signs (physical sign)?. hardware system - shape and volume of the signs - size - absolute and relative- how it is mounted and connected to environment (or objects)?- materiality - stainless steel, timber, plastic . as system - depends on location, orientation, distance, size and surroundings- contents first, concept (method) second- reminder: don' fall prey to pretty picture first, like designing book or website. . information before providing beautiful signage to attract the attention, one should know the content of information beforehand. for example, who is the target audience and what is the core information to display? since the signage is limited in size and scale, we should eliminate the redundant infomation and make it as clear as possible by using color, shape and supplementary symbols to provide as much information and content,etc. ii. graphics: expression the expression of the signage depends on the featured component or element of the information. the most memorable part of the object is always used as signi er to recall the memory of the object. for example, smoke refers to the action of smoking, skirts for reminding the difference between men and women, or wave refers to wind-sur ng or other water sports, etc. iii. graphics: quality the quality of the object is further evaluated by its form, color and compositions. the same object can be expressed in different formats and composition. the nal decision is always balanced one with considerations of aesthetic, connotations and the image of the signage. iv. graphics: clarity the redundant information or graphic always pose barrier to understand the intent ef ciently. therefore, the featured object should be focused and the rule of no not more than two objects at once should be applied. (.. object + action, object + object , object + action + text description) . hardware system after designing the appropriate graphic to be presented, the optimal location and media should be selected carefullly. these decisions are expressed in terms of placement of the sign, the material for fabrication and viewing distance and angles, etc. . signage pyramid model: graphics, hardware and information iuuqxxxqsjnftpmvujpotdp[bwarning signage mandatory signage information signage clear enough? vi. shape shape is highly dependent on its surrounding objects, one of the benefit of using special shape is to contrast and make the signs noticeable. it marks the main intent of signage: to let people know. even though each shape may contain certain meaning, the rounded, trainagular or combined forms, shape is only supplementary to the information itself. vii. materiality by the same token, material itself gives meaning for the reader. it associates the meaning with the atmosphere as an impression. functionally, it is the material which forms physical body to hoist the information, thus the major contribution of selecting special material is to make the sign more prominent. the choice of material for exterior is limited due to consideration of durability. however, the variation of material for indoor signs is higher and always relate to the interior furnishing. viii. size and distance the dimension of the signage and its position should be conisdered from the viewer' perspective. if they are too small or too big, they can' be seen or simply be skipped by the viewer. it doesn' matters too much in case these are just advertisement. however, some essential signage cannot be omitted in case of emergency lke escape route and fire-fighting equipments,etc. in addition, speed is sometimes criteria when designing signage for drivers and road users. .navigation: message hierarchy and proximity how we navigate the signage visually depends on the composition among texts, graphic and the remianing space. the hierarchical order of them enhances our understanding of the content. some graphics are beautiful but not clear enough to convey the necessary message to its viewers.also, because we see things in hierarchical order as this is our instinct to grab information fast (for survival). with the utimate goal of signage to let people understand, we could judge the merit of signage design by the level of understanding. . hierarchy hierarchy doesn' mean the content of information must be less. even the information ux can be balanced with color and disposition. in usual cases, we observe things in hierarchical order in terms of color, size,centrality and corners. we read things from left to right, top to bottom,etc. even some people may have special reading habit, they all have their own order for grouping the information and try to understand. that means hierarchy doesn' need to be linear to regular, but manageable. .navigation: message hierarchy and proximity green grouping due to same colorgrouping due to same colorii. proximity same as the principle of hierarchy, objects that placed in adjacency would be easily read with sequence. that links up the seemingly scattered objects and form meaning.(this could be regarded as comprehension) iii. counter-example although many "bad" signage can be read and understand eventually, it creates discomfort in aesthetic composition. for example, the color variation becomes distraction as it contrast with the surrounding objects. the spacing also creates unnecessary gap which loosen the relations of the texts. iv. better example: try playing with customs there are certain types of sigage that are familiar with viewers, such as color codes of red and yellow for warnings or shapes that is used for vehicular signs. they have already established hierarchy and order which most people are awared, and the rules of these communication has created another level of meaning to the sign which is easy to comprehend. . pictorial information: symbols and diagrams the linkage between diagrams and symbols form system of information. the system is like web, allowing one to move from one to another. in reality, the signage serves similar function that allows people to gure out what they are going to do, steps by steps. as people is hard to grab loads of information at once, signage saves the digestion time for information and direct the viewer to destination, like airport or carpark step by step. therefore, the ulitmate goal for signage is about an event or action, which is determined by yourself. sometimes signage is an active way-finding system, which serve different purposes. normally we seldom use it in places with high visibility and predictability. but in places with the absence or only ambiguous con guration is allowed, signages become useful and can save us lot of time. . pictorial information: symbols and diagrams crime prevention advice pod/ property reminder color subject (yourself) detail caption uitusffulddpn12: pm uitusffulddpn12: pm uitusffulddpn13: pm uitusffulddpn12: pm
dr can liu (tue, thu) ofce: m7073 email: canliu@cityu.edu.hk pink floyd, /tsan/physical computing & tangible mediasm2716 about me years in europe (counting the uk) before joining scm in postdoc in urban computing at the university college london, uk phd in human-computer interaction at the universit paris-sud & inria, france msc in media informatics at the rwth aachen university, germany born in henan, china bachelor in information management and information systems, sichuan, china about me researcher in human-computer interaction computer science + psychology + design inventing and studying future interfaces of technology what is this course about? angible interactive media: human-computer interfaces (machines that see, touch and talk) new media arts (new technology and tools for creation) goals learn by making discover resources and communities create your own interactive stuff physical computing embedded software (intelligent objects - including robots) internet of things (connected objects) why do we want physical? computers were invented to help secretaries to handle paper work. now everybody is using it! why do we want physical? revolution of computing the goal is to change the painted bits of guis to tangible bits , taking advantage of the richness of multimodal human senses and skills developed through our lifetime of interaction with the physical world. hiroshi ishii, tangible media group from graphical to tangible bits ishii and ullmer () tangible bits, acm chi.ui we are at good time to make physical media dynamic and interactive. inform, mit media lab why making things smart, aware & connected? bridging the gap between the digital and the physical beyond the pc, keyboard & display smart objects, smart home, smart city ubiquitous computing and distributed intelligence complex ecosystem of smart objects (cybernetics)natures complex ecological systems (biology)physical computing is the knowledge and technique to create original responsive systems if you are going to create, you cannot be just an end user! learning by breaking, learning by making thinking out of the box, playing with the world opening new design dimensions & forms of expression create your own tools of expression if we think about interactive displays interactive display and hand waving in shopping mall (getting boring)the snow as an interactive surface!? (laserinne project, lapland, ) draw on the smoke! nuage vert- hehe, helsinki, medium complexjin yo mok, hypermatrix simple sensors and lights, gesture motors, wheelsrobots, drones, ai cloud connectedlarge scale installations combining everything! what can you do with physical computing? what can you do with physical computing? 13physical computing includes the techniques to create original responsive systems, more interesting than the standard keyboard + mouse + computer + monitor setup. it goes hand in hand with digital fabrication techniques (cad, laser cutting, 3d printing) with both, you can prototype very quickly, from art projects to commercial products. ... and millions more! some examples... media-art projects with physical computing daniel rozin, wodden mirror theo jansen, strandbeests. ...this is beautiful example of physical computing project not using electricity, but another fluid: air ! ...capable of motion and elemental computing imitating, communicating with nature ratchairs, alvaro cassinelli & al. elowan, mit media lab balance from within (-), jacob onski. my little piece of privacy, niklas roy the dancing trafc light manikin, smart constellaction by pan generator . gluons by alvaro cassinelli and daniel saakes. what do you want to build? the fundamentals of physical computing ! what will you learn? simple electronic circuits, sensors and actuators = body of your systemthe arduino microcontroller = brain of your system ! arduino programming ! arduino programming course plan sm2716 sem- - w1 introduction of physical computing w2 basic components & simple circuits w3 arduino coding & digital input/output w4 analog input/output (potentiometer, light sensor) w5 making sound: detect taps and make melodies w6 detecting position & motion (accelerometers, rangefinder) w7 no lecture (for both tuesday and thursday sessions) w8 making things move (motors and solenoid) w9 project proposal (presentation in groups of ) w10 making things move ii (more motors) w11 communication: infrared, serial and processing w12 working on project (&) november 30th & december 2nd final presentation & demo to be confirmed! final demo day! any conflict with exams? let me know asapnot holiday but no lecture final project proposal attendance scm attendance policy applies more than absences after the add/drop period will fail the course assessment in-class tasks (about in total) - % graded during the class time late submission only possible at the beginning of next week lecture final project in groups of - % all communication via canvas get my slides for each lecture read the announcements communicate with me via canvas messages all submission of proposals and reports via canvas example works from previous students skatelight ech elephant robot plants plant assistant lardy decibel album electronic zither mini keys basketball hoops oo cakebot pet feeder sound gameinstrumentlight animal resources ... but mostly online arduino official website: examples at: (many more, forums, sites, maker spaces - for instance: )books create.arduino.cc/projecthub/projects/tags/art makezine.com/category/technology/wearables/ the list is.. infinite! resources pick up your equipment at the production center hardware kit keep it for the whole semester return it at the end you need it for every classnext week: basic electronics and circuit making warning! do not wait till before the next lecture starts!!! loooong queue!
machine learning for artists:week sevenunsupervised learning supervised vs. unsupervised learningthis distinction refers to the way in which the machine istrained to learn function. supervised learning wehavestudied how machine learning can be used to tackle classificationandregression problems.totackle these problems, the machine is trainedto identify thecorrect output for any given input by using input data that comes together with correct outputs. the accuracy of the machines performance can be measured by comparing its outputs with the correct outputs. we canthinkofthiskindoftrainingasonewherethemachinelearns bybeing exposed to model answers. unsupervised learningthe machine is trained without having any access to correct outputs. the machine must have another way to measure the accuracy of its outputs. wearegoing to study two kinds of problems that are usually tackled in an unsupervised learning mode: .clustering2.dimensionality reduction review: clustering clusteringaims to partition input data (for ex., images) into groups or clusters, so that similar instances are in the same clusters and different instances are in different clusters. theoutputs arelabels (usually integers) representing clusters. image source: woutervan gansbeke,simon vandenhende,stamatiosgeorgoulis,marc proesmans,luc van gool, scan: learning to classify images without labels clustering clustering resembles classification.we often aim to learn decision boundaries. butinaclusteringproblem,training data comewithno labels (correct outputs). clustering workswith unlabeled datasets. image source: there are many clustering algorithms. perhapsthe most popular clustering algorithm is the one known as -means. source: -means separates set of points into kclusters by finding kcentral points (centroids) in the data space.centroids arecoloredredinthis diagram. each centroid represents one cluster. points in the dataset are colored blue. each point is assigned to the cluster represented by the centroid closest to it. closest is measured by some distance function, usually the euclidean distance. image source: let us see first how the algorithm works in practice. wewillpickadatasetwhereitisobvioustothenakedeyehowto mark the boundary between two clusters. () the algorithm receives dataset as input.() it then chooses (in our case ) points at random marked here in redand blue. these will be the initialcluster centroids. source: every point in the dataset is assigned to the cluster represented by the centroid closest to it (assignment step)points close to the red centroid will be assigned to the same cluster. points close to the blue centroidwill be assigned to the other cluster. then new set of kcentroids is computed (update step)thenewbluecentroidwillbetheaverage point in that cluster. the new red centroid will also be the average point in that cluster. everypoint is againassignedtotheclusterrepresentedbythecentroidclosesttoit. the process of centroid computation (update) and assignment is repeated until the assignments stop changing. there is no guarantee that the algorithm willconverge.itiscommontosetamaximum number of iterations. source: pseudocode for -meansfroma course in machine learning, hal daum iii like all clustering algorithms, -means learns function that takes datapoints as inputs and produces cluster labels as outputs. what is special to -means is that, if is the number of clusters, the algorithm learns set of kcentroids c1 ,c2, ck. each centroid represents cluster as the average point in that cluster. everypointisassignedtothecluster represented by the centroid closest to the point. -means chooses centroids such that the sum of the distances of each pointtothe centroid of its clusterisas small as possible. we have been speaking about points being close to other points. closenessisusuallymeasuredusingametric(anotionofdistance).there are many notions of distance. popular definition is the euclidean distancebetween twopoints:-means relies on the squared euclideandistance. -means learns to separate training datapoints into kclusters represented by centroids c1 ,c2, cksuch that the total sum of distances of each point to its closest centroid is as small as possible. this can be expressed in the following loss (objective function): image source: in scikit-learn, there is samplecodeexplaining howtousek-means to quantize the colors of an image . -means is linear method. supposethatweaskforonlytwoclusters ( = ). -means implicitly learns linear decision boundary separating the two clusters. source: illustration of case where > . -means can perform badly if the dataset is nonlinear. thisdataset should probably be separated such that points on the outer ring belong to one cluster and points on the inner ring belong to the other cluster. -means,however,partitionsthemintotheredandblueclusters. nonlinear clustering other non-linear methods are better suited tosuchcases.onesuchmethodisspectral clustering. wewillnotdiscussitinclass,butyouareencouragedtoexplore it in scikit-learn. comparison ofvariousclusteringmethodsinscikit-learn dimensionality reductionthe second example of unsupervised learning that we will study today is dimensionality reduction (or dimension reduction). dimensionality reduction there are many dimensionality reduction methods. all of them are designed to transform the input data from high-dimensional space to lower-dimensional space. we wish to learn function from rnto rm, where << . given set p1, p2,, pl, of lpoints in rn, identify set of lpoints q1, q1, , qlin rm, where << , such that qiin some sense represents pi. the latter points are lower-dimensional embeddingsof the former. let us take image data as an example grayscale image is an array of pixels. every pixel is represented by real number between (black) and (white). an image of wpixels can be described as list of wreal numbers. these wreal numbers can be understood as coordinates of the image in space of wdimensions. in other words, the image is vectorin in . the zero vector would then be completely black image. dimensionality reduction algorithm would associate every image with shorter description (.., vector with smaller number of components). for instance, grayscale images live in space of dimensions. set of such images would be represented by matrix of shape (, ). dimensionality reduction method might represent the same images as matrix of shape (, ). in thiscase,the datawouldbeembedded in space of 5d. veryinformallyexpressed:the shorter description should preserve important relations between images, so that if twoimages are in some sense similar, their respective embeddings should be close. (more on this later). whyisdimensionalityreductionuseful? dimensionality reduction can be used as pre-processing step before applying classification or regression algorithm. doing this can substantially lower the computational cost of running those algorithms. it can also improve the accuracy of those algorithms, because dimensionality reduction can retain important features of the data and eliminate noise. why is dimensionality reduction useful? another important benefit of dimensionality reduction isvisualization. since high-dimensionality datasets cannot be visualized directly (we can only visualize spaces of two or three dimensions), dimensionality reduction methods can help us to visualizedatasets. we do this by reducing the dataset to two or three dimensions and then producing visualization of it. why is dimensionality reduction useful? visualization supports exploratory research. exploratory research is any research that aims to understand dataset better. like clustering, dimensionality reduction can also be used to explore dataset to find interesting or suggestive patterns in it. one of the most popular (and oldest) dimensionality reduction algorithms is principal component analysis (pca). pca involves two steps: .mean-centering the dataset .rotating the coordinate systemiwillillustratethesestepsassumingthattheinputdatalivesinaspaceofdimension2and we wish to reduce it to dimension . principal component analysisstep one: mean-centering the input datatranslatethecoordinate systemsothattheoriginislocatedinthe meanpoint (centroid) ofthedata. source: two: coordinate system rotationrotatethesystem ofcoordinatessothat the first axis points in the direction of greatest variation in the data. source: diagram shows the two steps. notice that the first pca axis captures the main direction of variation in the data. the second pca axis is orthogonal (perpendicular) to it. now the first axis represents the most important feature (principal component)in the dataset, in that most of the variation in the data happens here. wecanthenignorethevalueofthesecondcoordinateandjustassignonenumber(thefirstcoordinatevalue)toeachpoint.theleftimage represents the original data. the right image represents the data after the two-step transformation. imagesource: by leaving out the second coordinate value, we can simply useonenumber to represent each datapoint instead of two numbers. this number, moreover, captures the most important variations within the data. we can think of the pca as procedure to decorrelate the data so that the covariance of the two features after the transformation is zero.the next slide shows the actual algorithm in pseudocode. thealgorithmrequires lot of technical background, which we might not be able to cover in class. source: manifolds the concept of dimensionality reduction can be understood in terms of the concept of manifold. perhaps all of machine learning could be understood in terms of this concept. the manifold concept is very technical one, so we will introduce it very informally. first, we need to review some ideas we have already studied. we can further unpack this idea by considering the concept of manifold. since the definition of manifold is technical,letusinsteadintroduce the concept by giving examples. the first class of examples is that of euclidean spaces. the class of euclidean spaces comprises: point, line, and plane, as well as higher dimensional analogues of those geometric objects. all ofthese objectsare manifolds. non-euclidean spaces can be considered manifolds if they look locally euclidean. amanifold is geometric object that looks locally euclidean. the surface of the earth is not euclidean space. but it is 2d manifold. every point on the surface is surrounded by region that, when zoomed into, looks like region of the euclidean plane. manifold is set of points of dimension with the following property: if you zoom into any point you care to choose, there is region around that point that looks (topologically) like region of the -dimensional euclidean space. lemniscate (figure eight) is not manifold because it is self-intersecting. ifyouzoomdeep into the curve, and the zoom is centered on theself-intersection point, what you would see does not look like region of euclidean space (neither section of straight line nor region of the plane). the surface of the earth canbeunderstoodasa2dmanifoldthatlives in 3d euclidean space.not all manifolds live in euclidean space, but we are going to consider only manifolds that do the surface of sphere in space is two-dimensional manifold in three-dimensional space. the manifolds we are going to consider are non-euclidean manifolds that live in euclidean space. the dimensionality of the manifolds is in most cases lower than the dimensionality of the ambient space. closed curve on the plane is 1d manifold embedded in 2d space. 2d manifold (surface) in 3d space geodesic distance between two points on manifold is the length of the shortest possible path between those points on the manifold. it is the shortest distance to travel between the points without leaving the manifold. if non-euclidean manifold lives in euclidean space, the shortest euclidean distance between two points is not the shortest distance on the manifold. imagine 1d manifold ( curve) ina 2d euclidean space.imageacreature (the ant below) who cannot escape from the manifold. imagine another creature (the bird) who can move anywhere in the euclidean space. for the bird, the distance between and is not the same as for the ant. manifold assumption:the data involved in problem or tasklies on, or close to, at least one lower-dimensional manifoldembedded in thehigh-dimensional input space. dimensionality reduction sometimes assumes that datapoints lie on (or near) lower dimensional manifold, .., that the shape of our data has relatively simple structure. this assumption is theoretical idealization that reflects the existence of constraint. thisassumptionaffords the construction of certain kinds of models of the data. euclidean distances in the data space often fail to capture manifold distances. consider the shortest euclidean path between two imagesin dataset. for instance, pick an image halfway between them in euclidean space. this image might not look like convincing transition between them. this shows that we have moved outsideofthemanifold of our image data. the following sequences show paths from two pairs of images (the left and right images of each row) that are plausible pathways along the image manifold. dimensionality reduction aims to transform the (.., image) data into lower dimensional space, such that euclidean distances in the transformed space in some sense correspond to (geodesic) distances in the image manifold. for instance: images that are close in the image manifold will be close in the reduced euclideanspace. in this sense, dimensionality reduction (and many other methods in machine learning) can be described as manifold learningbecause they aim to represent some feature of the (.., image) manifold. in most situations, the actual shape of the data manifold is unknown. most methods have tomake certain assumptions about the data without knowing what the manifold in fact looks like. linear and non-linear manifolds the manifold can be linear or nonlinear pca assumesthat the data are on or close to linear manifold. other methods, such as spectral embedding (the laplacian eigenmap) are designed with the assumption that the input data lies on or close to nonlinear manifold. they try to capture nonlinear relations between input data. assume the data shown on the left is on 2d manifold in 3d space. we want our dimensionality reduction method to respect distances between points on the manifold. we would want our 2d embeddings to look (possibly) like the image on the right. compare linear (pca) and nonlinear (isomap) dimensionality reduction method on contriveddataset. unrolling the swiss rollwithnonlinearalgorithms implemented in scikit-learn unrolling the swiss rollwithnonlinearalgorithms implemented in scikit-learnthese algorithms attempt to project the swiss roll data from its input space (3d) to 2d space, such that distances on the manifold are preserved in their 2d embeddings. there are many nonlinear manifold learning or dimensionality reduction methods. some of them work by using the idea of knearest neighbors. letusconsiderasimplifiedversionofhow theymight work. distances between neighboring points (.., points close to one another) can be approximated by euclidean distances in the input space. distances between non-neighboring points can then be approximated by adding together the euclidean distances of neighboring points along the shortest path connecting them. common theoretical model of manifolds represents geodesic distances using nearest neighbor graph. pick number . for every image in the movie, find its kclosest neighbors in the (euclidean) input data space: the kother images closest to it, using the euclidean distance metric on the input data space. now build graph where every node represents datapoint (for instance an image) and there is an edge between two images (nodes) if and only if one of them is among the nearest neighbors of the other. geodesics on graph are shortest distances along the graph. distances between two nodes can be be measured by the number of edges, along the graph, from one node to the other. source: dimensionality reduction methods like the laplacian eigenmap use this graph explicitly to map points to lower dimensional space. dimensionality reduction methods like the isomapuseshortest paths on the nearest neighbor graph. the scikit-learnlibrarycontainsimplementations of many of these methods. we will not cover the details in class. the term manifold learning is used to describe those methods in machine learning that make the explicit assumption that the input data is on lower-dimensional manifold embedded in higher-dimensional euclidean space. manydimensionality reduction methods can be described as manifold learning. manifold learning is applied in many other areas of machine learning, mainly (but not exclusively) unsupervised learning. todaywehavecoveredtwo kinds of unsupervised learning: clustering dimensionalityreductionbesidessupervised andunsupervised learning, there is semi-supervised learning, where some of the training data is labeled but some (usually most) of the training data is unlabeled. thereisalsoreinforcement learning, which will not be covered in this course.
ge2223 interpersonal skills and positive personal development session & meeting new friends & self-understanding session outline before making new friends, before getting to know one another, understand yourself first since your self - concepts affect your social behavior, your communication with others, your interpersonal relationships, etc. self-concepts exercise self concepts trust walk warm up game questionnaire on trust johari window self-disclosure concepts to learn self concepts private versus public self real versus ideal self self disclosure johari window trust who am ? drawing exercise assignment . self concepts self concepts are constituted by what you think about yourself public self concepts your perception of self as appear to others private self concepts your perception of self as you see yourself internally self concepts self concepts are constituted by what you think about yourself real self how you see yourself as you truly are.ideal self what you want yourself to be. self concepts self concepts are constituted by what you think about yourself public self concepts your perception of self as appear to others private self concepts your perception of self as your see yourself internallyideal self what you want yourself to be. real self how you see yourself as you truly are. how do your self concepts affect your social behaviors? assignment . the self-concept test william james () real meideal me cooley () the looking -glass self note: public self - concept may or may not be congruent with real (private) self - concept .., superiority - inferiority complex pseudo self - esteem the pretence of self - efficacy and self - respect tal ben - shahar: person who is humble, who doesnt need constantly show off is usually the person with higher levels of self - esteem. beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. (.) definition of self - esteem/self - worth self -esteem is the disposition to experience oneself as competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and as worthy of happiness. nathaniel branden self-worth is often used interchangeably with self - esteem. self-esteem (self -worth) : your evaluation of your worth or value based on your perception of such things as your skills, abilities, talents, and appearance. (beebe et al., :) how your self - concept developed one of the ways we develop our self -concept is by interacting with others. our sense of who we are is consequence of our relationships with others . our selves change primarily depending on how people respond to us . others words may shape our identity many of you may still carry with you as part of your identity things that people said to you when you were child or teenager . some people said negative things about you that you still carry with you. and that' become your identity. it is real problem if you live your life based on what others say about you because you are destined to live on roller coaster . dont let that be part of your identity. don allow the things that people say about you be part of your identity . (bobby schuller, pastor of hour of power /crystal cathedral , --) the importance of self -esteem of all the judgments we pass in our lives, none is as important as the one we pass on ourselves . nathaniel branden the greatest evil that can befall man is that he should come to think ill of himself . goethe ( ) what are the factors to develop my self -image parenting parental aspirationsattachment and trust developed in babyhood sex differenceordinal position family school academic performance in schoolevaluation by peersevaluation by teachersbelongingness in school five-factor model of personality later, revised version of personaltiy inventory was constructed, which consists of factors, called neo -pi- (ocean). = openness to experience = conscientiousness = extroversion = agreeableness = neuroticism openness to experience this trait consists of general appreciation for art, emotion, adventure, unusual ideas, imagination, curiosity, and variety of experience. people who are open to experience are intellectually curious, appreciative of art, and sensitive to beauty. they tend to be more creative and more aware of their feelings. examples: have excellent ideas. have good imagination. conscientiousness this trait shows tendency of self-discipline, and aim for achievement. therefore, it is personality trait with preference for planned rather than spontaneous behavior, and an ability of regulating self-control. conscientiousness also includes the factor called need for achievement. examples: follow schedule. pay attention to details. extroversion extroversion is characterized by positive emotions, the tendency to seek out stimulation, and the company of others. being enjoyable to be with people, and being often perceived as full of energy, enthusiastic, and action -oriented. fond of talking, and assertive. examples: feel comfortable around people . introversion introversion is characterized by being quiet, and less involved in the social world, but not being interpreted as shyness or depression; needing less stimulation than extroverts; but more time alone. introverts may be very active and energetic, simply not socially. examples: don' talk lot. agreeableness agreeableness is tendency to be compassionate, cooperative, and in general concern for social harmony. agreeable individuals value getting along with others. they are generally considerate, friendly, generous, and helpful. agreeable people also have an optimistic view of human nature. they believe people are basically honest, decent, and trustworthy. examples, sympathize with others feelings. am not interested in other peoples problems. neuroticism neuroticism is the tendency to experience negative emotions, such as anger, anxiety, or depression. high scorers in neuroticism are emotionally reactive and vulnerable to stress. they are more likely to interpret ordinary situations as threatening, and minor frustrations as hopelessly difficult. low scorers in neuroticism are relatively calm, emotionally stable, and free from persistent negative feelings. examples, am easily disturbed. worry about things. the big five personality trait dimensions dimension high end low end openness independent, imaginative, broad interests, receptive to new ideasconforming, practical, narrow interests, closed to new ideas conscientiousness well-organized, dependable, careful, disciplineddisorganized, undependable, careless, impulsive extraversion sociable, talkative, friendly, adventurousreclusive, quiet, aloof, cautious agreeableness sympathetic, polite, good -natured, soft - heartedtough -minded, rude, irritable, ruthless neuroticism emotional, insecure, nervous, self -pityingcalm, secure, relaxed, self - satisfied way to reverse the scores original score reversed score interpretation of results meaning of percentage % -% % -% % -% low range middle range high range approximate percentage of comparison group falling into these three ranges % % % do you know yourself the johari window johari window it is believed that there are certain things that you know about yourself and certain things you dont know about yourself ; and there are certain things other people know about you and certain things they dont know . johari window model: model of self -disclosure that summarizes how self -awareness is influenced by self-disclosure and information about yourself from others (beebe et al., : ) self-disclosure johari window (luft, ) how much do you know yourself and how much of you is known to others? known to self unknown to self known to others open blind unknown to others hidden unknown johari window the " open " quadrant represents things that both know about myself, and that you know about me. the " blind " quadrant represents things that you know about me, but that am unaware of. the " hidden " quadrant represents things that know about myself, that you do not know. the " unknown " quadrant represents things that neither know about myself, nor you know about me. johari window questionnaire instruction: carefully read each numbered item and its statements marked "" and "." assign point value to the and statements as follows: the total point value for and added together is five (). if statement is most similar to what you would do, mark for and for . if is not wholly satisfactory, but in your judgment better than , mark or for and or for . the converse is true: if is best mark for and for and so on. note: the result of johari window questionnaire is just for reference , and it may not reflect your true situation for some reasons, like cultural factor . if there is discrepancy between your understanding about yourself and the result indicated in the test, trust yourself and disregard the test result. open blind hidden unknown open blind hidden unknown open blind hidden unknown open blind hidden unknown openness dominant characteristic unknown dominant characteristic hidden dominant characteristic blind dominant characteristic openness dominant characteristic when two people have been successfully open and candid with one another and developed trust and concern, their relationship is characterized by large open area. through disclosure of appropriate information and the acceptance of feedback from others, person can develop relationship in which most of the information about both people becomes legitimate source of discussion and shared understanding. unknown dominant characteristic in any relationship, especially in highly bureaucratic organization , when one party believes in remaining aloof and impersonal in dealing with the other party, neither self disclosure nor feedback are worth the risk or the effect. in such relationship, members choose to be uncommunicative and rigid. little trust develops in the relationship and communication is restrained and predominantly one - way and task oriented . hidden dominant characteristics in this type of relationship, person finds it legitimate and appropriate to listen to feedback from the other person, but keeps most things about himself/herself private or hidden. this may be because the person does not trust the other person enough to share anything personal or he/she may be insecure , having negative self concept , or feeling that the other person would not understand . this unbalanced method of taking in feedback without reciprocal self - disclosure is likely to wind up with breakdown of communication and build up of distrust and anxiety . blind dominant characteristics this is type of relationship where person is more than willing to disclose information about himself/herself, but unwilling to listen to feedback from others . people who feel their own opinion worth more than others or see themselves as valuable resource to others tend to have little time to listen to others. such person is subject to " blindspots ". johari window as people communicate most effectively in the open area where we do not have to spend our psychic energy maintaining false impressions or " masks ", usually, the larger the open area, the more successful is the relationship . disclosure of appropriate information to and the acceptance of feedback from others can help us to enlarge our open area and to arrive at better relationship with people at home, at work or in our friendship circle. trust trust means being open. it involves willingness to disclose, but it is not just openness for disclosure. overall, trust is on the basis of the faith that others will act in nice ways to you. hence, trust also means being willing to count on others things you can do to maintain trust progressively disclosing yourself to the other person making sure your behavior regarding the other person is consistent following through on your commitments to the other person expressing warmth and acceptance to the other person being realistic about the relationship being trustworthy; being honest; maintaining confidentiality demonstrating respect by means of appropriate warmth, interest, availability , and cooperation with the other person avoiding being judgmental of the other person using whatever social -influence power you have carefully, in the interests of the other person avoiding behavior that might indicate the presence of such ulterior motives, such as selfishness, superficial curiosity, or personal gain self disclosure skills why is self disclosure necessary in relationship formation? is self disclosure always good? beware of these problems: flooded disclosure underdisclosure premature disclosure caution: self -disclosure involves risk self-disclosure is building block for establishing intimacy with others , yet it can be risky ! once you disclose something to someone, that person can now share that information with others; that person has additional power if the information is something youd rather not have others know . there is also risk of rejection [and ridicule ]when you tell someone something that is personal. (beebe et al., :) as powell comments (/): if tell you who am, and you do not like who am, that is all that have . caution: self -disclosure involves trust beware of over self -disclosure/premature disclosure you might feel sorry for over dose!! its ok for us to have some of our secrets kept personally within ourselves! one of most fundamental expectations people have of their friends is that they will not reveal confidences. when you say, oh, wont tell anyone. your secrets safe with me, mean it. (beebe et al., :) some rules of self disclosure begin with safe, nonrisky disclosure; move from less personal to more personal information (beebe et al., :) disclose in small doses match the level, amount, and style of the others disclosure; self -disclosure is reciprocal (beebe et al., :) be appropriate to the topic and fit the flow of conversation watch listeners reactions reserve your most important disclosure for significant, ongoing relationships. why am afraid to tell you who am? im afraid to tell you who am, because, if tell you who am, you may not like who am, and its all that have . powell, john. (/). why am afraid to tell you who am?: insights on self - awareness, personal growth and interpersonal communication . london : fount how to improve your self -esteem . visualize positive image of yourself : positive visualization can enhance your self -esteem. you can try to see yourself conversing effectively with others, performing well on project, or exhibiting some other desirable behavior. being able to visualize completing goal (thinking positively rather than thinking you wont achieve your goal) adds to your overall sense of happiness and wellbeing. (note: visualization should be realistic and coupled with plan to achieve your goal! ) (beebe et al., : -) how to improve your self -esteem . avoid comparing yourself with others rather than find others who seemingly are better off, focus on the unique attributes that make you who you are. avoid judging your own value by comparing yourself with others . healthy, positive self -concept is fueled not by judgments of others, but by genuine sense of worthy that you recognized by yourself . (beebe et al., :) () how to improve your self -esteem . develop honest relationships : having at least one other person who can help you objectively and honestly reflect on your virtues and vices can be extremely beneficial in fostering healthy, positive self -image. (note: other people play major role in shaping our self -concept and self -esteem .) (beebe et al., :) how to improve your self -esteem . let go of the past : your self -concept is not fixed. it is not implanted at birth to remain constant for the rest of your life. individuals with low self -esteem may be fixating on events and experiences that happened years ago and tenaciously refusing to let go of them. forgive others who have hurt you in the past its important to your own mental health and sense of well - being to let go of old wounds and forgive others . (note: looking back at what we cant change only reinforces sense of helplessness . ) (beebe et al., :) how to improve your self -esteem . seek support : you provide social support when you express care and concern as well as listen and empathize with others. talking with friend having someone who will be socially supportive is especially important when we experience stress and anxiety or are faced with vexing personal problem. (beebe et al., :) conclusions to build relationship especially long -lasting one you need to be appropriately open. openness is built on positive coherent self concepts, and on positive views on others. it is noteworthy that self concepts and view on others are evolved through interaction with others. constantly self -evaluate (dependent self -esteem)/ other oriented therefore, keep trying to interact with others and learn from experience! references beebe, . ., beebe, . ., & redmond, . . (). interpersonal communication: relating to others . boston: ally & bacon. ben-shahar , tal. (). happier: learn the secrets to daily joy and lasting fulfillment . new york: mcgraw -hill. ben-shahar , tal. (). the pursuit of perfect: how to stop chasing perfection and start living richer, happier life . new york: mcgraw -hill. brown, brene . (). the gifts of imperfection : let go of who you think you're supposed to be and embrace who you are . center city, minn. : hazelden . burger, . . (). ch11. the humanistic approach: theory, application, and assessment. personality (7th ed., pp. -). australia: thomson/wadsworth. corey, ., & corey, . . (). never knew had choice: explorations in personal growth (10thedition). australia: brooks/cole. davidson, ., rakfeldt , ., & strauss, . (). the root of the recovery movement in psychiatry: lessons learned. west sussex, uk: john wiley & sons, ltd. references deutsch, . (). cooperation and trust: some theoretical notes. in . . jones (ed.), nebraska symposium on motivation (pp. -). lincoln: university of nebraska press. johnson, . . (). ch3. developing and maintaining trust. reaching out: interpersonal effectiveness and self -actualization. boston: pearson & . luft, . (). of human interaction. palo alto, calif.: national press books. nolen -hoeksema , . (). abnormal psychology (5th ed.). new york: mcgraw -hill. peterson ., & seligman, . . . (). character strengths and virtues: handbook and classification . washington, dc, american psychological association . powell, john. (/). why am afraid to tell you who am?: insights on self -awareness, personal growth and interpersonal communication. london : fount references resnick, . ., & rosenheck , . . (). recovery and positive psychology: parallel themes and potential synergies. psychiatric services, (), -. trenholm , ., & jensen, . (). ch8. self competence. interpersonal communication (6th ed., pp. -). new york: oxford university press. yang, . . (). chinese social orientation: an integrative analysis. in . . lin, . . tseng, & . . yeh (eds.), chinese societies and mental health (pp. -). hong kong: oxford university press. (estella chan)() -- (hold on to your faith letters to social work students) (- )
dr can liu (tue, thu) ofce: m7073 email: canliu@cityu.edu.hk /tsan/sm2716 physical computing & tangible mediaintroduction to arduino coding make parallel circuit with one battery, two resistors, two leds and two buttons. each button controls one led.last week exercise 9v gnd 3make circuit using one battery, one resistor, one potentiometer and one led. turn the potentiometer to dim the light. attention : how to be sure you will not burn it? add the resistor you used in previous tasks and put it in series with the potentiometer!last week exercise () apollo guidance computer frequency: mhz memory: 4kb ram / 74kb rom ports: dsky (input/output), imu, hand controller, rendezvous radar (cm), landing radar (lm), telemetry receiver, engine command, reaction control system power: weight: kg price : . usd () arduino uno frequency: mhz memory: 2kb sram / 32kb flash / 1kb eeprom ports : general purpose input/outputs power: 200mw (in sleep mode it is . mw) weight: 23g price : usd           big computer has display, hard disk, complex peripheralsvs. ... microcontroller has input/output pins (everything in single chip). real time low power (lower speed) easy to embed in system microcontroller is an embedded dedicated computer to control hardware systems                                                                                               !"#  !"#      digital input and output analog input          #                 #        #         !"                                                                                an ide is: . text editor to write your code . compiler to prepare the firmware . an uploader to flash the firmware on your arduino memory. the editor: writing your code the editor: save/load files 3compiling and flashing the program                                                                                                            // put your code here (will be repeated indefinitely)                                                      $   ()    !    # $          "         $   %*  & ()!      #      $    %'  & ()!      #                      ?                               [exercise ] creating dynamic led pattern use the arduino to control three leds, making them flash from left to right and left to right (continuously)                         #        !$$  $ & % &$ %$"                                              !!  " !             "                                 "                 !           "             "              "      "   [exercise ] press the switch to toggle the led state. tips: use global boolean variable to store the led state (high or low), and the previous state of the switch.. when switch goes from high to low , change the led state to the opposite state.   "           #                    !         !     "   #                                   %"      %"                     !  # $         !     ! # "           $    #% $     !     !                          ! !                        next week: analog sensors potentiometers, light intensity, audio level, humidity, temperature, etc
hardware hacking [sm3610] sema / dr alvaro cassinelli (thu)office: m6028email: ytokuda@cityu.edu.hklecture . (revision)basic components & simple circuits arcattack forewords... =why we need to make electronic circuits if we already have an arduino microcontroller? body parts to interact with analog world-sensors (switch, light...)-actuators (lamps, speakers, motors...)power-battery, solar cell, dynamo...enhanced functions:-more memory and speed-real time clock,-wireless communication (wifi, gps, gsm)-intelligence (nn, face recognition...) arduinos eyes, ears, hands, legs: inputs and outputs today: electronics .electricity& electronics2.voltage, current & resistance (ohms law).the circuit theory (series, parallel).the electronic components (.., resistor, leds).hands-on exercise electricity: flow of electric charge (electron) atom all about movement of many negatively charged particles hydraulic analogy () : we can extract/store energy power generator batterieswater mill water tank wirepipe plumbing power linewater line wiringhydraulic analogy () : we can transport it to the right place the study of how to use and control electricitythe pipes to transport electricity are called wiresortracesthe parts which affect electricity are called electronic components (.., leds, resistor)the installations of wiring whole electronic components are called electronic circuits electronics electronic circuit(simple example) electronics generator, voltage, current and resistance? think like electrical water circuit ... generatorelectronic circuit water circuit ) how to make electrical water (electricity) flow ? generator(battery, dynamo) works as an electrical pump waterpumpbattery: electricitypump(electrochemical reaction) provide electric pressure to pump the electricity into circuit to make battery discharge, the electric circuit must be closedloop ) voltage: the pressureof electrical water (electricity) voltage is measured by the differenceof electrical pressure between two points in circuit unit of voltage is volts () (voltage: 9v) v1 ) current: the flowof electrical water (electricity)the flow of electricity is called electrical current, measured in amperes ()current flows from highto lowvoltage in circuit water flows from (highpressure) to (lowpressure)electric current flows from (highvoltage)to (lowvoltage) (high) (low) current: measure of how many electrons pass per second (like flow of water in /)1a : 108electrons per second... (massive amount of electrons) watercurrentcurrenta (high) (low) polarity (+/-) polarityindicates the voltage difference ("+"is higher than "-")guidesdirection of the currentflowin components(from "+"to "" )(note: for battery, "+"to ""indicates outwardcurrent flow in the circuit)some components(.., leds)are polarized(current flows one-way) currentcurrenthigh voltagelow voltage check our understanding...q1. can we have voltage without current? q2. can we have current without voltage?yes or no? check our understanding...q1. can we have voltage without current? q2. can we have current without voltage? open circuit yes3v, 0ayes(we can have voltage (pressure) without current flow)nono(we need voltage to make current flow) what are wires (electric pipe) made of ? metals (.., copper, gold) : good electrical conductormetal wires let electricity flow with little pressure (voltage) air requires billionvoltsto conduct current resistance: measure of the opposition to current flow water analogy: thinner pipe resiststhe passage of water flow every material has unique resistance (.., resistivity, diameter)resistance produces heat in the current flow processunit of resistance is ohms (): if we apply 1v voltage to material, it conducts 1a current flow ohms law (relation between voltage, current and resistance) = !"-high resistance => high voltage (proportional) some active electronic component may not have constant resistance (ex: transistor)(*) this ratio is constant for most materialohms law (*) -low resistance => high current (inverse proportional) 5v1a? = !"#$=5georg simon ohm the flow of electrons moves the motorthe flow of electrons heat the filament, and the bulb lights upthe switch is like tap stopping or allowing the flow to pass an electronic circuit schematic of electrical circuits: way to avoid insanity circuit diagramcomplex electrical circuit =electronic symbols and schematics pictorial styleschematic stylesymbol of electronic components( series and parallel circuitsseries: components are connected in series along the circuitthe current flowing through components is the same!( = i1 = i2 = i3)parallel: components are connected in parallel across the circuitthe voltage drop across components must be the same!( = v1 = v2 = v3) v1vv2v3ii1i2i3 vv1v2v3ii1i2i3 kirchhoff' laws v1vv2v3kirchhoffs 1st law : = i1 + i2 + i3total current entering circuit junction = total current leaving the same junction i1i2i3 kirchhoffs 2ndlaw : = v1 + v2 + v3total supply voltage around circuits loop = total voltage drop across components(i2+i3) junctioni gustav kirchhoff there are either passive or active discrete components (one circuit element)(note: chipis not discrete component: it integrates many components, so called an integrated circuit)passive components can only receive energy (.., absorb, discipate, store). no energy is required to work.active component can inject/control the flow of electricity (.., transistor: electrical valve). energy is required. can you find them?electronic components: overview 25resistorselectronic components designed to have precise values of resistances (ohm)made of different materials and capacity to dissipate heatwhile resisting beware: low resistance produces heat with large current(5v is enough to burn your hand with low resistance resistors) 50w 26calculate the total series resistance r1r2r3r series resistancerseries= r1 + r2 + r3 +r4 1k rseries= 1k + + = 27calculate the totalparallelresistance note: !"=!("$%&%'()*$)=conductance= !"!"#"$$%$= sparallel= s1 + s2 + s3 +s4 => parallel= !sparallel!"!"#"$$%$=!#$+!#$=##%= !!"parallel= 1k parallel resistance1parallel=1r1+1r2+1r3+1r4 turningthe wheel changes the resistance: manual control of the resistance potentiometers:variableresistors you can adjust the current flow with potentiometer => dim led light! ( later in-class task) output input outputinput input (.., gnd) ex.)100k ohminput (.., vcc)clockwisecounter-clockwise switches momentary switchestoggle switchesremain closed only whilepressedstay closedoncepressed diode: limits current flow direction diode is polarized: current flows only one direction (forward bias) requiresminimum 2v to start conducting in the right direction(while conducting, the voltage drops around 2v,always)note: resistance cannot be consistently defined water analogy: check valve 31diode that emits light when the current flows. minimum operating voltage: ~2v(color-dependent) maximum current flows: -30ma(or may start burning out ) leds: light-emitting diodes easy to use and super fun for beginners! anodecathode -storesmall amounts of electrical chargeand release it (discharge)-useful for filtering electrical noise (smoothing out electricity)capacitors: electrical charge (energy) storage () charge() discharge transistor: electrical valve to control current flow-electrical valve to control largecurrent (voltage) with tinycurrent (voltage) input (the example of discrete active component) -we will use transistor to control actuators with arduino microcontroller in this course(week and ) control terminal(current, voltage) inputterminaloutputterminalwater valveelectrical valve 34power supplies: cell, battery, power adapter source: nicolai marquardt, university college london power adapter all together: complete circuit if you understand this circuit (and you are not scared anymore),you know enough to do some fun with electronics in this course! +- analog or digital electronics? it is all about information protocol!continuous analog signaldiscrete signal (on/off) hands on words of cautionuse batteries and avoid using outlets (when possible) -220vis enough to create current that maykillyou(your body is also conductor with high resistance)avoid short circuits ( circuit with verylow resistance)-short circuits have very largecurrent and power(very dangerous: may burncomponents and cause fire)wrong polarity will damage some electronic components(.. leds) current +-/ short circuit +- multimeter-key tool to measure voltage, current, resistor measureresistance ()measurevoltage ()measurecurrent (ma) / 40testcontinuity(electrical connection) the multimeter will beepwhen two probes are electrically connected (with little resistance) / measure resistance of potentiometer (variable resistor) output resistance range(.., 250k) input 1input input 1input 2clockwisecounter-clockwise1// breadboardand jumper wire! / breadboardelectrical connection rememberhow holes are connectedto each other !abdc power railterminal conductive metal clip(internal structure) simplified schematicspictorial schematicsexample circuit: prototyping stages prototyping board (real)prototyping board (schematics) soldered printed circuit board (pcb)you can use autodesk tinkercadto draw and simulate your circuit / anotherway to provide powerto breadboard:microusb cablefrom an usbcable (5v), computer portand power bank / simple led circuit with abattery and resistor 45a led can handle only small current ( -30ma) you need current limiting resistor to avoid burning out led! how to calculate the resistor? ohms law! => r1 = (9v-vled)/20ma = = 20ma?vled = 2vled operating voltage:2vforward current: madont put the led directlyto battery!led burn out !!/ v1vv2v3kirchhoffs 2ndlaw = v1 + v2 + v3vresistor= 9v vled= 7v r1 = !&'()(*+&"9v the value of the resistor (again) 10k1000 1m / note: (we use 1kor 220resistor instead of )check the led polarityrecallhowholes areconnectedon breadboardrecall how holes in power rails(on the sides) are connectedcheckcorresponding points (, , ) inthe schematic and the breadboard details of breadboard circuit() ()() ()()() / 2201k 1kor +-() voltages at different points . v7 v9 vvoltages between:battery terminals: 9vled terminals: 2v(*)resistor: 7v(-)gnd(+) (*) 2vis the operating voltage of an led11/ leds in series and in parallel circuit note) different values for the resistors:/ = 20ma i0 ii1 i2i3i4ii= ma(= , , , )= #$%('$('$)*= +$',-.=225rseriesrseries< rparallelseries circuitparallel circuit2225 = !"#$"%&= /$',-.=350rparallel add push-button switch to the resistor-ledcircuittry this: adding switch / 220or1k make parallelcircuit with one battery, two resistors, two leds and two buttons. each button controls one led.[task1]9vgnd14/ 2201k 52make circuit using one battery, one resistor, one potentiometer and one led. rotate the potentiometer to dimthelight. leds may burn out if we reduce the potentiometers resistance to too low.add the resistor you used in previous tasks and put it in series with the potentiometer![task ] / +- 2201k next weekarduino coding /
dr alvaro cassinelli (wed)office: m6028email: acassine@cityu.edu.hklecture 4timing & timer interruptsaudio sampling and synthesis(and something about midi) hardware hacking [sm3610 semb /] sound (audio signal)sound is propagating wave of pressure (change of density) in material the ear or microphone measures the local pressure of the air and transforms it into an electrical signal. this is called the waveform. it is an analog signal! [flipping physics] pressure frequency (pitch) and amplitude (loudness) of pure tone aire pressure hearingproducing knockreal voicemusic real sound modulates frequency and amplitude noise spectrogram& additive synthesis frequencyamplitude (waveform) when you play or sing note, there is loudest fundamental frequency.you recognize the instrument (piano, trumpet, etc) thanks to its harmonics (multiples of the fundamental) blue whale example real sounds spectrograms android (example): spectral audio analyzer iphone (example): spectrumview you can try: strange formulaartificial waveform design (few examples!) additive synthesis principle (granular synthesis)synthesizer electromagnetpiezo sensor also works in reverse: voltage generates sounddirectly connected to pwm pin (very high resistance)piezo (as speaker, active / passive)) sound generation: speakers note resistor (speaker impedance is low ~ ohms)could use transistor for amplification activepassive electromagnet speakermay need an amplifier to work with arduino... piezo speakeryou can connect directly to the arduino pins. bone conduction markus kisonbone conduction speaker? note the need of an amplifier...... made with arduino! the plasma tweeter works by moving air via changing the temperature in its chamber.singing tesla coil, (also zeusaphone) produces musical tones by modulating its spark output... little more exotic: the paper speaker! (you can put in notebook or business card and use the attinymicrocontroller) audio synthesis digital to analog conversion (dac) discrete approximation of continuous audio signal: ...but didnt we say that arduino does not really have analog outputs!? pwm can generate % square signal:analogwrite(pin, ) ...but at what frequency? it cannot be changed! (pins and gives 1khz and , , , produce 500hz)using pwm for to generate sound? note: the active buzzer(very loud !!) check polarity( +: long leg ) -+pin8gndreduce sound by sealing thetop hole with tape or finger !! same code as led blink example (only change pin#} buzzer module: advanced: how to get less harmonics? low pass filter with capacitor! square signal is the sum of many sinusoidal (pure tone) waves. it sounds different from unique pure tone. .. by filtering the high frequencies, you can get the fundamental pure tone. you cannot do it by software though. use low pass filter to extract the fundamental tone(three times here) tone( pin# , frequency, duration);the tone function tone( pin# , frequency ); (*) use of the tone() function will interfere with pwm output on pins and generates square wave of the specified frequency (always % duty cycle): pin# :any digital pin(*)frequency : frequency(pitch) of the tone in hzduration: durationof the tone in ms(notone(pin)stops generating the tone at pin) the passive buzzer note: try stickingthe piezo on some paper box to make the sound louder! (resonance box) pin8gnd+- analogwrite( pin, duty )tone( pin, frequency )fixed frequency variable duty cycle (this change harmonics)variable frequencyfixed duty cycle (%) note the differences lets create melody this secondary tab contains the frequencies for each note;this file is #included in the main program [hands on ] : create your own melodywith passive buzzer more table of note frequencies can be found here: can brainstorm melody with following tools:.online-piano player with notes .chrome song maker(tutorial) create your own melody by customizing the tonemelodyexample:choose the sequence of notes and their durations you can choose also the scale (minor/mayor, etc)you can also change the set of frequencies (in pitches.) if you want atonal music for instance. ii) audio acquisition: the microphonesound are variation of air pressure (or other material) microphone transduces it in electrical signalcarbon(oldest...):resistance changes with soundmems microphone (very compact!) smartphones... electret: capacitance is modulated (lapel mics) dynamic microphone: output is voltage piezo transduceroutput is current (pick up guitars, contact mic) piezo transducer as contact micapiezoelectric transducer transforms mechanical deformation into voltage.pressure waves in the air or the guitar frame deforms the piezo. ... capacitive touch sensor (just dont activate the pullups!) others forms of input (vibration, knock, tilt, touch, etc) ... force sensitive touch sensormicrophone (detect clap?)shock/vibration sensor analog to digital conversion (adc)we already used analogreadto represent voltage with number between to : to analyze sound signal, we also need to measure at regular intervals.if the sampling rate is too low, we will miss things (some frequencies, or eventslike knock for instance). audio sampling intval= analogread(pin)how to sample at regular intervals? ) how to sample at fixed intervals, without blocking the program (no delay)? periodic sampling (with continuous polling) ...by checking the time: unsigned long time = millis();millis() returnsthe number of milliseconds passed since the arduino board began running the current program. it is long number (up to days in milliseconds), hence we need to declare all the timing variables as unsigned long1) adding delay()? bad idea: delay() blocksthe execution of the rest of the program! we may want to do other things (including reading other sensors for instance) ms10 times per second sampling example non-blocking periodic execution with millis():(can be sampling or led toggling) ... still, the rest of the program can modify the sampling period!! everything written here is executed every periodexec milliseconds. note the type of these timing variables: unsigned long, bits ( bytes) variable ( to ,,,).this way, overflow only happens every ,,, / / / = dayscode here is still executed at every loop, without delay (delay() is blocking the loop) solution: sampling using timer interrupt: interrupts are way jump and execute function periodically (callback), regardless of what the main program was doing. it is an elemental form of multitasking. this way, you dont block your program nor need to check all the time the clock (polling). moreover, hardware timers can be extremely precise. you can use for sampling, but also generating signals;you can also use it for putting the system to sleep periodically (advanced)library timerone: piezosarepolarized;put -megohm resistor in parallel to the piezo element (pull down resistor). it limits the voltage/current produced by the piezo and protect the analoginput. piezo transducer as knock sensor electronic drum pad.. this is exactly what you find under the drum pad! detecting knock? actual signal from knock on the table: lot of noise and bounces in - ms... ) simple threshold value(check on the serial plotter to select it) code (arduino>>file>>examples >> .sensors >> knock)threshold problem : if the sampling period (the period between two analog reads) is too low, we may miss the knock!problem : threshold depends on how strong you hit the table!but if threshold is too low, you will detect several knocks (bad for drummer!) program (loop) stops (100ms) debouncing the knock signalthe knock signals bounce for several milliseconds... if we use low threshold (to detect light knocks), we will detect several knocks...similar (but simpler) to the push-button bouncing problem! () add blocking delay()... not efficient, but simplest. () use timing variable (unsigned long)keep track of the last time you detected push (pin was high, and becomes low)keep reading new value, and checking for new push, but only accept it if certain amount of time passed. in that case, update the last push time.how to debounce? max_bounce_time ) debouncing the knock (the simplest way) the execution is blocked! what if we have more sensors or things to do?? ) knock debouncing withnon-blocking delay ) reminder:millis() returnshow muchtime has passed since arduino program began (in milliseconds). data type: unsigned long (can count time until50 days) note that here the sampling frequency is not necessarily constant how to debounce? you may have noticed problem with the toggle...the push button contact bounces for several milliseconds (can be from fraction of msto as long as50ms) .by hardware (low pass filter) .by software: using timing() add blocking delay()... not efficient, but simplest. () use timing variable (unsigned long)keep track of the last time you detected push (pin was high, and becomes low)keep reading new value, and checking for new push, but only accept it if certain amount of time passed. in that case, update the last push time.timing based debouncing: switch state note: the pb of periodic sampling (continuous polling). this will be solved with external interruptsreminder: debouncing switch was similar proper debouncing switchjust use this... -using millis() (without interrupts)-using callback function bonus:youcanprogramarduino fromawebpage ... but you can use library! this needs debouncing! (like in the case of the switch)read the piezo signal at constant period ts= msdetect rising signal (>thresh, estimated with the serial plotter)detect knock only if the previous knock happened at minimum of tknock= 10ms apartblink led in that case [hands on ] : detect tap and toggle led examples twinkle mario zelda tetris each time you knock on the table, note of the melody will playmake it play indefinitelyby calling tone(...) without duration: each time knock is detected it will override the previous tone.when the melody is over, start from the first note again (or in reverse order if you want)attention:dont use blocking delay to debounce piezo knock sensor, but the non-blocking delay method, otherwise you wont be able to continue detecting knocks[hands on ] : performyour own melodyyou will combine the code for knock detection with the code to generate your melody (task ): [hands on ] : heartbeat sensor we can measurethe heartbeatwith piezo knock sensor (tape piezo to finger, try not to move)you can even measure the heart rate in bpm (beats per minute) by averaging the times between knocks. note however that this is far from the best method. it is better to use the absorption of light by the blood and you have led and light sensor. fun (realistic) projects already accessible to you1) theremin: capacitive sensor / use light sensor to control the frequency of speaker (tone function)) memory game (simon) secret knock code to open doors or drawers!(this is very fun,we may revisit this if time)) for those who have midi instrument (can be garabeband), can explain how to use the arduinoto send midi signals to the computer (real electronic drum kit!) music instruments with analog control (bender?) hacking an old keyboard to read keys:-use the scanning method explained above-... or hack the signals produced by the keyboard electronics. this depends on the model (ps2, usb). ... and what about making keyboard (or mouse!) that actually canbe recognized as one by the pc? easy! wireless 3d mouse with four keys...=> game controller! method to scan 4x4 keypad (and output the ascii code on the serial port) ... obviously, you also have library that does this for you!intnumrows= ; // number rowsintnumcols= ; // number columns// elemental debounce! (using blocking delay): intdebouncedealy= ; // ascii mappingcharkeymap[numrows][numcols] = {{ '', '', ''} ,{ '', '', ''} ,{ '', '', ''} ,{ '*', '', '#}};// pins for scan (sequential activation of columns): intcolpins[numcols] = { , , }; // pins for reading (rows): introwpins[numrows] = { , , , }; voidsetup(){serial.begin();// set row pins as inputs (with pullup):for(introw= ; row< numrows; row++) { pinmode(rowpins[row], input_pullup); }// set column pins as scanning outputs:for(intcolumn= ; column< numcols; column++) {pinmode(colpins[column], output); // start with active pins (remember: inverted logic)digitalwrite(colpins[column], high); }}voidloop(){charkeyoressed= getkey();if(keyoressed!= ) { serial.println(keyoressed);}}// returns ascii code of the pressed keychargetkey() {charkeypressed= ; // note: means no pressedfor(intcolumn= ; column< numcols; column++) {// activate column:digitalwrite(colpins[column], low); // scan row one by one:for(introw= ; row< numrows; row++) {if(digitalread(rowpins[row]) == low) { // inverted logic! delay(debouncetime);// cheap debouncing...// wait for key to be released:while(digitalread(rowpins[row]) == low); keypressed= keymap[row][column];}}digitalwrite(colpins[column], high); // deactivate column}returnkey; } monome reading keypads or matrix of buttons is simple by scanning the lines (connected to digital inputs) while sequentially activating the rows (connected to digital outputs) ... then send the corresponding midi signal to synthesizer.. or use the arduino itself to generate -bit sound. make phone call using tone and keys (modem) reading keypads or matrix of buttons is simple by scanning the lines (connected to digital inputs) while sequentially activating the rows (connected to digital outputs) ... then generating for each keypress, tone with certain duration and frequency as in the table. other things that arduino with shield could easily doanalysis (not just computing the fundamental frequency, but the spectrogram)real time manipulation: reverb, echo, etcgeneration using additive synthesis (simple) or granular synthesis (using sd card -arduino may be too slow). mp3 player, voice generation, voice recognitionsend and receive midi / osc data arduino mp3 player with amplifier. guitar effect shield midi shield stereo / multichannel acquisition / generation next lecture :event detectionhardware interruptphoto-interruptersdistance sensors & theremin+ simple assignment to be submitted on l8 ( march) bonus: perceptual dimming ofaled -+pin a05vgnd5vgnd note: eye perception of brightness and led dimming our senses perceive the magnitude of stimulus in non-linear way:when the stimulus is small, small variation is easy to detectwhen the stimulus is large, small variation is difficult to detectmore precisely, the perceived strength of the stimulus is proportional to its logarithm (fechners law)this means that in order to perceive linear change of brightness, the real brightness should change exponentially!
, :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of storytransfer learning for imageclassification () visualizevgg- layer-by-layerchris kuo/dr. datamanfollow12 min readaug , (image by author) 16layers3layers13layersq.why16layers? convolutionallayersfully-connectedlayersconv1-1conv1-2poolingconv2-1conv2-2poolingconv3-1conv3-2conv3-3poolingconv4-1conv4-2conv4-3poolingconv5-1conv5-2conv5-3poolingdensedensedenseoutputlayer100077x5121x1x10001x1x102414x14x51228x28x51256x56x256112x112x128224x224x3224x224x64searchwrite , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of and resnet made their names in the imagenet challenge in 2014and . both continue to be used by many practitioners now. in theprevious chapter we learned general convolutional neural networkframework, now we want to understand the specifics of vgg-. in thischapter, we will load the vgg- model and the resnet model. willvisualize the inputs and outputs layer-by-layer to show you what vgg-16sees an image. you will witness how vgg- creates features and whatthey look like. we will use vgg- as the primary case. after reading thischapter, you can apply the same approach to understand other pre-trained models.here are some basics of the two models. vgg- is named after thevisual geometry group from oxford. the in vgg- refers to the 16weighting layers. they are the convolutional layers and the fullyconnected layers. the pooling layers do not have parameters to train soare not counted in the . how about resnet? it stands for residualnetwork. we have learned the resnet model in chapter : the stories ofpre-trained models. interested readers are recommended to reviewchapter .() we will use tensorflow & keraswhen people talk about the top modules for deep learning, tensorflow isone of them. tensorflow is an open-source platform for machinelearning. it has many libraries and community resources. it enables mldevelopers to build and deploy ml applications easily. keras is an open-source deep-learning api written in python. it supports tensorflow ortheano. big companies such as microsoft, nvidia, google, and amazon , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of contributed actively to keras growth. my python notebook isavailable via this link.() load the pre-trained models: vgg- and resnetwe can use keras to load pre-trained model. lets load vgg- first. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of pre-trained model saves all its secret ingredients in its parameters. thecode weights='imagenet' loads the parameters of the model trained onimagenet. the include_top=true includes the fully-connected layers.vgg- requires the input images to be pixels, which meansthe height and width should be and for the rgb colors(input_shape=[,,]). it is often the case that images are not this sizeand we need to re-size them.the content is shown in figure (). it has the name, the output shape,and the number of parameters of layer. although vgg- has 16weighting layers as said before, it technically has layers. they arelabeled as layer[] to layer[] for easy retrieval. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of (): vgg16_model.summary()the above layers perform five distinct types of functions. they are theconvolutional layer, the pooling layer, the flattening layer, the fullyconnected layers, and the output layer.. layer [] block1_conv1": this convolutional layer takes an inputimage of size [,,] and outputs feature maps of 224x224pixels. the number of parameters to estimate is ,.. layer [] block1_pool: it reduces the size of an input image from[,] to [,]. notice pooling layer does not change the , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of of feature maps. also, pooling layer has no parameter toestimate.. layer [] flatten: this layer is commonly used in the transition fromthe convolution layer to the fully connected layer. there is noparameter to estimate in this layer. the fatten layer makes the -dfeature maps into 1d vector. the length of the 1d vector is = ,. it is the number of neurons for the fully connected layer.. layer [][]: the names of the fully-connected layers are fc1 andfc2. there are quite lot of parameters to be estimated (,,544and ,,).. layer[] predictions: since there are , image labels in imagenet,the number of output neurons is ,.the total number of the parameters is ,, and they are alltrainable. this means if we use the vgg- framework to train newimage dataset, we can train all these parameters. here we are not goingto train vgg- but just use the model to predict. later we will opensome layers to train our model.similarly, you can load and interpret the content of resnet model.below load resnet model. you can apply the same way to interpretresnet. print out the last few layers. the total number of parameters is25,,, of which ,, are trainable and , non-trainableparameters. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of join medium with my referral link - chris kuo/dr. datamanread every story from chris kuo/dr. dataman. yourmembership fee directly supports chris kuo/dr. dataman andotherdataman-ai.medium.com () pre-processing images for vgg-16every pre-trained model requires the input images to follow certainformat. the code below is utility function that loads an original imageand then pre-processes it to the required format. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of pre-processing of an image includes two tasks: () re-sizing andconverting an image to numpy arrays, and () adding one moredimension. the following two functions in the keras.processing class areused to help re-sizing and conversion in task ().load_img(): this function loads an image and re-size it to 224pixels.img_to_array(): this function converts an image to 3d numpy arrayfor (height, width, channel). for rgb images, the value for channelis . for grayscale images, the value is . , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of expects the - input format to be - (batch, height, width,channel). to perform task () is very straightforward. we just need to addone more dimension by using np.expand_dims().the code outputs the above message. the eagle image is an rgb image of224 pixels. the rgb 3d array for the image is (, , ). thebatch size is because each batch has one image. after this pre-processing step, the format for this image becomes (, , , ).here we encounter new concept: batch. batch can have multipleimages or just one image. when pre-trained model was trained, allimages were bundled into batches. the pre-trained model is now used forprediction, thus it requires the same format. will describe more detailsin chapter : get image data, ready, and go.() vgg- and resnet can recognize the eagle image correctly(.) vgg-16lets see if vgg16 can recognize the eagle image. the eagle class is one ofthe , classes in imagenet so vgg- shall predict well. note that allthe , classes are available in the imagenet description: , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of output is plain json file that contains the probabilities of the classesranked in descending order. the first five predictions are bald_eagle99.%, kite .%, vulture .%, great_grey_owl .%. itpredicts the eagle image very well. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of resnetlikewise, below is how you use resnet to predict the image. its topprediction is eagle with probability of .%. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of visualize the filters and featureswhat is feature in an image? in chapter : lets understand aconvolutional neural network, presented that feature is somethingdistinct about an image. in order to extract distinct features about animage, cnns use filters. the idea of filter is inspired by camerasfilter . if you mount different filters on your camera, you can get filteredphotos that each captures something distinct about the original photo. figure (): the filters (image by author) , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of image processing, filters are small squares like figure (). aconvolutional layer uses filters to produce feature maps. everyconvolutional layer should have its own distinct filters and features. whatdo the filters and feature maps of vgg- look like? found it helpspeople greatly if they can see the filters and feature maps. so choose thefirst layer and the last layer to demonstrate their filters and feature maps.you shall see how the original image evolves into features.() the filters of block1_conv1this is the first convolutional layer. we only need one line of code to getthe filters of this layer: filters, biases =vgg16_model.layers[].get_weights(). keras has made the biases availabletoo. bias vector is an additional set of weights in neural network. wedo not need the bias term for our purpose. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of the above code seems long, it just normalizes the filter values to0 and , then plots them in three colors. there are filters. each filterwill scan the channel, then the , and channels. you also can sayeach filter has three copies, so there are = filters.figure () visualizes the filters. the first three filters are the , , andb filters of the first filter. the next three filters are the , , and filtersof the second filter, and so on. notice the , , and filters of the samefilter should be very much alike, though with small variations. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of (): the filters of block1_conv1 (image by author)() the feature maps of block1_conv1feature maps are the outputs of layer. the way to get them is to definethe model up to layer[], then apply the model to the eagle image byusing .predict(). , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of are filters so there will be feature maps. technically, each of , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of filters is applied to the , , and channels separately. then thevalues of the three channels are added together. figure () shows the feature maps of the eagle image. do you agreethat each of them captures something distinct about the original image? , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of (): the feature maps of block1_conv1 (image by author)() the filters of block5_conv3the block5_conv3 is in the 17th layer. we will retrieve the filters similarto the way we retrieved them in (). there are filters and just displaythe first filters. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of () (image by author)you may ask how cnns determine the ilters. cnn determines thefilters during optimization. when an image goes through the network,the values in each filter get updated by small amount. this smallamount is determined using the derivatives of loss function. the valuesin each filter slowly converge towards value that minimizes the lossfunction. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of the features of block5_conv3feature maps are the outputs of layer. now we are going to get theoutputs of the 17th layer. we will define the model up to layer[], thenapply the model to the eagle image by using .predict(). , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of are filters in layer . these filters scan through the , ,and channels and then combine them to produce feature maps.each feature map is pixels. below just show of the feature maps. notice these are all part ofthe features of the eagle image. can you imagine each of them capturing , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of distinct about the original eagle image? these fragments canbe magically combined to represent the shape of the original eagle. figure (): the feature maps of block5_conv3 (image by author)() block5_pool the pooling layerthe feature maps in () are to be reduced further by the pooling layer. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of have explained the purpose of the pooling layer in the previous chapter.here let me summarize again. pooling layer simply reduces theresolution of the feature map. it is like the downsizing of an image. thislayer does simple calculation and there is no parameter. here theblack5_pool layer reduces the feature maps from to 7pixels. now we have feature maps of pixels.() the flattened layerthe flattened layer is in the 19th layer. it converts multi-dimensionalarrays into one-dimensional array to feed to the fully connected layers.figure () shows how they are stacked as long one-dimensional array. figure (): flattening (image by author)each fragment is pixels, and the flattened layer stacks themvertically into one-dimensional array. this produces - array of , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of = . all the feature maps shall go through the sametreatment. by stacking all the one-dimensional arrays vertically, thelength of the final array is = ,.didnt we say the slicing and stacking of large image loses the spatialrelationships in an image? why do we still do slicing and stacking? it isbecause up to this point the size of an individual feature map is small, theslicing of small feature map does not lose much. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of is the one-dimensional array of length ,. it becomes theinputs for the fully connected layers.() the fully connected layerslet me spend some time explaining the magical work of how thefragments in figure () can be used to identify target. the last threelayers are standard neural network. its input layer is the stacked one-dimensional array, and its output layer is the target classes in an array.each of the targets can be considered unique combination of somevalues in the one-dimensional array which is flattened from the featuremaps. to make this more visual, we may imagine an eagle can berepresented by combination of the fragments in figure (). anotherimage, lets say bird, can be represented by different combination ofthe fragments. therefore, the feature maps together with the uniqueweights can economically and effectively represent different targets.these feature maps and the weights are the secret ingredients of animage classification model.conclusionsin this chapter, we learned the vgg- model and the resnet model. we , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of what vgg- sees and interprets an image. we learned theinputs and outputs from one layer to the next layer. the learningcertainly will help us to apply transfer learning effectively in the next fewchapters.chapter : what is transfer learning?chapter : the stories of pre-trained modelschapter : lets understand convolutional neural networkchapter : lets visualize the pre-trained vgg- model layer-by-layerchapter : get image data, ready, and gochapter : build and fine-tune your transfer learning model , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of some words about platformswhat is your platform to run keras? tested both the google colab andmac m1. if you are not using google colab, you can try google colab. ifyou have mac m1 machine and want to run keras and tensorflow onm1, have some recommendations for you.appendix: google colabgoogle colaboratory provides the jupyter notebook environment that isfree to use and requires no setup. google colab already pre-installedlibraries such as pandas, numpy, tensorflow, keras, and opencv .further, the notebooks that you create can be simultaneously edited byyour team members just the way you edit documents in google docs.please take few minutes to follow my step-by-step guide start usinggoogle colab free gpu.appendix: special notes for mac m1 users to run tensorflowrunning tensorflow on the mac m1 machine is tricky. it will requireadditional packages like tensorflow-metal and correct versions ofsupporting modules. although apple in its developer forum hasdocumented the installation guide, recommend this video, and thisvideo was nicely done by professor jeff heaton to show you how to installtensorflow on mac m1 machine. , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of join medium with my referral link - chris kuo/dr. datamanread every story from chris kuo/dr. dataman. yourmembership fee directly supports chris kuo/dr. dataman andotherdataman-ai.medium.com readers are recommended to purchase books by chris kuo: , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of explainable ai: learning for image classification: time series anomaly detection: of anomaly detection: , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of by chris kuo/dr. dataman5k followersthe dataman articles are my reflections on data science and teaching notes atcolumbia university https:/ /sps.columbia.edu/faculty/chris-kuofollow more from chris kuo/dr. dataman chris kuo/dr. datamanindataman in aiexplain our model with thechris kuo/dr. datamanreinforcement learning withdata sciencepythontransfer learningconvolutional networkneural networks , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of our model with theshap valuesuse the shap values to explain anycomplex ml model13 min readsep , .8k36reinforcement learning withhuman feedback (rlhf) foralgorithmic tradingwith python code explained18 min readjul chris kuo/dr. datamanfine-tuning gptlorathis post explains the proven fine-tuningmethod lora, the abbreviation for low-rank adaptation of large languagemodels. in this post18 min readjun 201654chris kuo/dr. datamanint owards data scienceexplain any models with theshap valuesuse thekernelexplaineruse the kernelexplainer for the shapvalues15 min readnov , 20199457see all from chris kuo/dr. dataman , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of from medium kenneth leungint owards data sciencepractical guide to transferlearning in ensorflow formulticlass image classificationclearly-explained step-by-step tutorial forimplementing transfer learning in imageclassification14 min readdec , 20222413khwab kalrainai mindimage segmentationa comprehensive guide5 min readjul 221331listspredictive modeling /python20 stories645 savescoding & development11 stories289 savesnew_reading_list174 stories209 savespractical guides to machinelearning10 stories724 saves , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of francoimage segmentation with -netand kerascomputer vision has few sub-disciplinesand image segmentation is an importantone. in previous post, we went over thetheoretical24 min readnov 1434royadeep dive in identifyingdamaged car parts with vertexai for automl vision usersthis is the third lab from the series of deepdive into computer vision fundamentalswith google cloud labs. check out theprior labs10 min readaug sik-ho sangbrief reviewstackgan: ext tophoto-realistic image synthesiswith stacked generativestackgan, stacked two conditional gansfor generating high resolution images4 min readaug 81krishna ygiinartificial intelligence in plain enshfeature engineering forcomputer visiona comprehensive guide to featureengineering in computer vision6 min readoct , :37transfer learning for image classification () visualize vgg- layer-by-layer | by chris kuo/dr. dataman | medium page of more recommendations helpstatusaboutcareersblogprivacyt ermst ext to speecht eams
copyright reserved: all lecture notes and related materials are solely used for this course. please do not upload the materials to any unauthorized websites or distribute to other parties without my permission. ge1121: the japanese way of tea thematic guest lecture on japanese culture and philosophy the japanese sense of season wang min [ ] chapter41 pao-yu sips tea in green lattice nunnery granny liu succumbs to wine in happy red court dont drink liuan tea, said the old lady. know, replied miao -yu smiling. this is patriarchs eyebrows what water have you used? rain -water saved from last year. the lady dowager drank half the bowl is this made with last years rain -water too? asked tai -yu. miao -yu smiled disdainfully. can you really be so vulgar as not even to tell the difference? this is snow gathered from plum -blossom five years ago while staying in curly fragrance nunnery on mount hsuanmu. managed to fill that whole dark blue porcelain pot, but it seemed too precious to use so ive kept it buried in the earth all these years, not opening it till this summer. today is only the second time ive used it. surely you can taste the difference? how could last years rain -water be as light and pure as this? shun in japanese culture . shun and japanese sense of food shun . . . . (first of season) (extend one life span) . shun and japanese view of people : person who is currently very popular .shun and japanese literature kigo, seasonal word, seasonal phrase when the haiku poets create haiku, they often use kigo, which are special words for expressing the seasons, such as kachofugetsu ( , term meaning flowers, birds, winds and moon). the season phrase dictionary the sense of season and sino -japanese culture shun allusion, literary quotation episode of reading drug in fuji korenori last moments, the monk sitting beside his pillow explained the zhongyou to him and wanted him rest assured. korenori asked: what is the zhongyou like? the monk answered: it is just like walking in the dusky wasteland. korenori asked again: if it is wasteland, there must plants and the sounds of insects. isnt that so? yes, there must be . korenori said: zhongyou is good . then the monk left. matsuo basho ( -) journey on ill/ dream as -for withered field (object)/ wonder around four steps of life ( the cycles of life; metempsychosis ) birthlivedeathon the way to rebirth birthlivedeath when fujinomotoasa sheltered from rain under the gate of touji temple, there were many beggars gathered around him as well. every one had strange body; there were hunchbacks, dwarfs, and people with arms and legs that were twisted and deformed. when he went back home, he ordered his servant to throw all of the potted plants that he used to be so fond of, saying: how could to like those beggars. high class foods and medicines in china edible bird nest sharks fin bears paw tiger-bone (liquor) snakes bile book of mountains and seas at the end, the host should offer the guests his farewell as if he regretted to see them leave and when the guests step out onto the roji, he should not shout, but quietly see them off until they are out of sight .then with peace in his heart, the host re -enters the tea -room in manner as to avoid turning his back to them and sits alone in front of the hearth hand, pondering where his guests may now be, he realizes that meeting like the one today will never come back . chado koten zenshu, . concentrate on the moment this is something which master jocho told his son -in-law gonojo: now is the time, and the time is now. we tend to think of everybody existence as different from the hour of crisis, and so when the time comes to act we are not ready: summoned into the presence of the daimyo or sent out on mission, we are apt to be at loss for words. this goes to show that in our minds we separate the time and now. comprehending what is meant by the time is now, means practicing one lines in corner of one room in preparation for such an occasion, even if one is never summoned into the presence of the daimyo, as long as one lives, after all samurai must be prepared to speak out articulately before the daimyo or his elder statesmen, in public, or with the shogun himself. this is the way to approach everything one does. it is true of practicing the military arts as well as performing one civic duties . chinese: long time japanese: right time weekly readings (weeks -) davies, . & ikeno , . the japanese mind: understanding contemporary culture. tokyo: tuttle. [library -book] see the chapters of () japanese sense of beauty, () the do spirit of japan, () the japanese sense of seasons koshiro, . (). the wabi aesthetic through the ages. in .. varley & . kumakura (eds.). tea in japan: essays on the history of chanoyu , pp. -. honolulu : university of hawaii press. [library -book] see chapter
the expression of emotions as classification problemmachinelearningforartists: additional lecture (week six) many artists, philosophers, and scientists have tried to understand the language of emotional expression. painter who conducted research on the human face was charles le brun (-). this is portrait of le brun by another painter, nicolas de largilliere. le brun was an artist and teacher. he aimed to help painters draw faces that would clearly express different emotions. he developed system for this purpose. emotions according to le brun (clockwise): simple love, fear, anger. which emotion do you think this is? sadness what about this one? surprise and this one? admiration mixed with astonishment le bruns approach could be described as classification problem. he wanted to find the featuresof face that ensure an accurate classificationof thefaceasbelonging to particular emotion. which parts of the face are most important in displaying emotions? which parts of the face are most important in displaying emotions? for le brun, it is the eyes and (especially) the eyebrows. an important feature is whether the eyebrow slopes upward or is arched in the middle. le bruns painting of louis xiv. when the angle of the axis of the eyebrows rises uptowards the forehead, this suggests movement up towards the soul. le bruns the penitent magdalen le brun, the persian queens if the angle descends downtowards the nose/mouth, the expression has more animal quality. here are desire, scorn, fear and terror. le brun was strongly influenced by study of emotions written by the philosopher and scientist rene descartes. when teaching students how to paint, le brun used classification of the emotions developed by descartes. things material (spatial) mental (thoughts) purely mental actions origanting from the mind directed towards mental objects combined with the body actions originating from the mind directed towards material objects passions (received from and rpresenting material objects) non-evaluative (the object is not thought of as good or bad for me) wonder (the object is thought of as out of the ordinary) evaluative (the obuject is thought of as good or evil for me). non-temporal (my thoughts about the object make no reference to time) love (positive evaluation) hatred (negative evaluation) temporal (my thoughts about he object refer to past, present, or future) about the future desire (acquisition of good or escape from evil). about the present or oast joy (positive evaluation) sadness (negative evaluation) hierarchy of passions (descartes)all passions of the soul for descartes reduce to six basic passions(article ): .wonder2.love3.hatred4.desire5.joy6.sadness hierarchy of passions (descartes)other passions are either mixtures or species of these six basic passions.descartes aimed to produce list of the main passions, which can be clearly and sharply defined.other passions can then be defined by reference to these main ones.for instance, greed is love for the possession of money combined with the desire for money and other emotions (article ). on the other hand, descartes claimed that fathers love for his children is pure and involves no mixture with desire. (article )there are two species of love for descartes, love for good things and love for beautiful things (delight). (article ). the classical episteme le brun and descartes lived in period of the history of western knowledge (approximately 17th-18thcenturies) that has been described as classical episteme. an episteme is system of knowledge that characterizes many different branches or disciplines in historical period. the term episteme was introduced by 20thcentury philosopher and historian michel foucault in his book theorderofthings.one important feature of the classical episteme was an obsession with order and classification. classical orderclassical knowledge consists in the arrangement of our ideas regarding given topic from the simple and primitive to the complex. starting from what is simplest and easiest to knowthen moving to what is progressively more complex.complex items are mixtures or species of basic ones. classicalorderin the classical episteme, to know is to distinguishand to relate. the order of reality is to be found in the structure of the elements into which things and their resemblances can be analyzed. these elements are related not by vague and ambiguous resemblances but by strict identities and differences (presence or absence of particular properties). on the basis ofthese identities and differences, elements can be arranged in series(.., from the simplest to the most complex) in terms of precise criteria. gary gutting, michel foucaults archaeology of scientific reason(cambridge, ), . . exhaustive orderingthis order wastobeattained by making acomplete(comprehensive) review ofall aspects of the problem being addressed, so that nothing is left out. descartes recognized, however, that there are many passions that might lie outside of his system. the number of passions is indefinite. henonethelessclaimed that his system includes all the main passions (article ). this idea of exhaustive ordering was at the heart of early modern science: the sciences always carry within themselves the project, however remote it may be, of an exhaustive ordering of the world. foucault, the order of things, . . the classical conception of knowledge was at the basis of descartes theory of the emotions and le bruns application of this theory to the art of painting. classical ideas of knowledge remained influential even after the 18thcentury, although the nature of scientific knowledge was altered. new forms of knowledge (and power) since the 19thcentury were mainly organized around the collection andprocessing of data aboutpopulations. statistics was one of the key disciplines in modern forms of knowledge. modernartists and scientists aimed to understand the relation between the inner world of the mind and the outer expressions of the body. wecanthinkofthisasthecreation of dataset about large populations. johann kasparlavater(-) produced sketches of the facial expressions of the insane. the insane were confined in large institutions (asylums). lavateroften drew sketches of those inmates. 19thcentury research on the creation of datasets of emotional expression benefited from two technological advances. .photography2.electricity . photographywhy is it difficult to study ()motions? charles darwin wrote: the study of expression is difficult, owing to the movements being often extremely slight, and of fleeting nature. difference may be clearly perceived, and yet it may be impossible to state in what the difference consists. 19thcentury researchers used photography to capture slight and fleeting changes in the face,makingitpossibletodescribe differencesthat could not have been captured otherwise. for this reason, photography was considered more objective medium. . electricityemotional expression depends on the action of muscles. researchers used electric shocks to produce muscle motions. this approach helped them to identity the combinations of muscle motions that express different emotions. guillaume-benjamin duchenne() the mechanism of human facial expression duchennesresearch involved first stimulating one single muscle. he then combined these isolated muscle contractions in all the variations possible, by making the different muscles contract, two by two and three by three the approach hasa classical aspect: trying to isolate simple or basic elements which can be combined to form more complex emotions duchennebelieved that his work had both scientific and artistic value. scientist charles darwin admired duchenneswork: no one has more carefully studied the contraction of each separate muscle, and the consequent furrows produced on the skin. he has also, and this is very important service, shown which muscles are least under the separate control of the will.darwin, the expression of the emotions in man and animals darwins methodology for the study of emotion in the 1860s: he showed people photographs of facial expressions to test whether or notthose people could recognize the emotions in those photographs. these are photographs of sadness used by darwin in his research. darwin concluded that emotions are universal, .., they occur in all human cultures....the young and the old of widely different races, both with man and animals, express the same state of mind by the same movements. he claimedthatitispossible to produce comprehensive ordering of all emotions. darwin published his results in the book the expression of the emotions in man and animals (). here is short review of darwins work on emotions, which summarizes his ideas and gives examples: entire book is available online: darwins work has influenced recent work about emotional expression. psychologist paul ekman showed people in different cultures photographs of certain facial expressions. people were asked to label those expressions. most people, even those from different cultures, chose the same labels for the same expressions. conclusion: certain expressions represent the same emotions in all cultures. ekman believed in the possibility that all emotions could be known in classical way:starting from small number of simple emotions whose combinations or variations generate more complex emotions,forming comprehensive ordering. articles by ekman about the expression of emotion: other media artists have made referenceto the history of research about emotions. performance artist stelarcallowed people to control his body motions remotely, via the internet, by electric means. michele barker and anna munster duchennessmile () artwork: reface [portrait sequencer]by golan levin and zachary lieberman, . the installation recordsand dynamically remixes brief video slices of its viewers' mouths, eyes and brows. refaceuses face-tracking techniques to allow automatic alignment and segmentation of its participants' faces. refacevideo documentation. affective computing or emotion analytics is now growing trend in the integration of design, computing, and business. it depends on classical conception of the knowledge of emotion. the aim is the measurement of emotion. researchers aim to develop software that can detect the emotion of person based on her/his facial expression and then respond appropriately. it is helpful to have set of basic emotions, such as surprise or anger, that the computer can be trained to identify. the field of affective computing was pioneered by scholar rosalind . picard. computers are beginning to acquire the ability to express and recognize affect, and may soon be given the ability to have emotions affective computers should not only provide better performance in assisting humans, but also might enhance computers abilities to make decisions. rosalind picard, affective computing, some authors have criticized picards approach for treating emotion as measurable information. this information-processing model has been criticized for ignoring many cultural aspects of emotion. perhaps these aspects can be better understood using ideas and methods from anthropology. boehner, kirsten; depaula, rogerio; dourish, paul; sengers, phoebe (). "how emotion is made and measured".international journal of human-computer studies.(): . another important and very urgent topic is the potential use of affective computing for surveillance and control. the expression of emotion is not only biological feature of human beings. it has social (political, economic, cultural) aspects. new deep learning algorithms will attempt to interpret the emotions expressed by human faces. the conclusions can be used, for instance, for commercial purposes. these are potentially important questions for artists to exploreand perhaps criticize. cheese, christian moller (video installation, )six actresses to hold smile for as long as they could, up to one and half hours. each ongoing smile is scrutinized by an emotion recognition system, and whenever the display of happiness fell below certain threshold, an alarm alerted them to show more sincerity" this work also shows the social pressures that certain people are under to display certain metions. if it is true that women are more subjected to these pressures than men, then there is strong gender-bias here. this artwork raises questions about the social aspects of the expression of emotion. smile, by tomas laurenzo the visitor is invited to smile in order tosee images of human-made destruction. the work how we act together(), by lauren mccarthy and kyle mcdonald, explores social and computational aspects of emotions. documentation of the work.
w1 / l1introduction: hacking & physical computing w2 / l1. basic components & simple circuits l1.] w3 / l2 arduino coding, digital pins, serial monitor w4 / l3analog sensors and actuators w5 / l4 timing & interrupts / audio sampling & synthesis w6 / l5 catching fast events with hardware interrupts / distance sensor mid-term assig. [knock secret] w7 / l6 power electronics: transistor& solenoids, motors, servos, steppers w8 / l6power electronics: transistor& solenoids, motors, servos, steppers w9 / l7 wireless serial: infrared & bluetooth (smartphone/computer) w10 / l8 imu (accelerometer, magnetometer & gyroscope) / control loop assignment deadline (w10) w11 / l9 project proposal presentation & discussion proposal presentation (w11) w12 / l10 arduino and the cloud: bluetooth, wifi, html server, iot proposal docs (w12)(or biosensing and real time signal processing)w13. help project / ssp / fablab / special consultations? w13 project presentation & demodemo & presentation (w13) nov deadline project documentation (video, pdf, online page)alvaro cassinellicourse plan [revised] sm3610 sema / 3weeks mid term assignement: next week wong wai lam antonioleung nga chingliu yuxiaocheung man hinyoon daye (esther)tam tsunkinli wing tung at commands : setting the bluetooth parameters the bluetooth modem has to modes of operation: data transfer, and command mode. we enter command mode by either connecting the key to vcc or keeping the button pressed while powering on (if it has button). the status led will stay on for second and stay off for another second if in at command mode.the code in the right is serial pass through that enables to send commands to the bluetooth serial from the arduino ide monitor. we may need to configure the name of the bluetooth because they will be many in the class. problem!!! the jdy30/ does not have key/enable pin, plus its awkward! hardware hacking [sm3610 semb /]lecture 9introduction to biosensingexample: diy heartbeat detectordsp: running average, variance and schmitt trigger. (...and word about displays)dr alvaro cassinelli (thu)office: m6028 ) introduction important: when doing biosensing, it is advisable to use wireless sensors for too reasons: cabling introduces electrical noise, and more importantly, you dont want to be connected to something plugged to the main, in particular ifthe electrodes are specially designed to be conductive (gels). ... brief look at ready to use modules but of course, we will be obliged to make our own because of the kit. ...which good exercise for hackers! ;) example: sound from muscle contraction.. and other things daito manabe, note: the inverse is possible! (electrostimulation) daito manabe, ) heart beat monitor neopixelringwifiusing esp8266 microcontroller (arduinoframework) ex: wearables and biosensing ...what happens if your dress shows your emotions? your heartbeat the laser aura: prosthesis for emotional expression noninvasive technique that measures the light absorption and reflection properties of deoxygenated and oxygenated hemoglobin.the amount of light absorbed in the hemoglobin is defined by the lambert-beer law (absorption depends on the wavelength, path length, medium density and absorption coefficient of the blood)note: to measure absolute oxygenation, we need second light source in the infrared.heartbeat using pulse oximetry typical ir led wavelength (ex: 940nm) diffuse optical tomography / near-infrared spectroscopy (nirs) .. the commercial arduino module: ... that we dont have what can we do? lets hack!) maybe the piezo transducer? the blood flow also changes the volume of vein, maybe we can sense that? yes! this could work: the method used to hear muscles contracting (yes, they make noise!), or to measure the blood pressure...). ) infrared led and photosensor!not the ldr because it is not very sensitive in the infrared (sensitive to green, but hemoglobin absorbs more on the infrared (hence the ir led). the blood flow also changes the volume of vein/artery. the principle is also used to measure blood pressure (detecting when the pumping sound starts and stop as we decrease the cuff pressure).btw, it is also possible to hear the muscles contracting (yes, they make noise!). using piezo sensor this is what you get after just smoothing little: in fact, the only problem with this is that you must stay very still; otherwise it seems to be... better/simpler method light absorptionuse the infrared led and the phototransistor (not the ir remote sensor) and put them as in the picture, slightly facing each other but not directly;the finger will seat in between them (and then the ambient light may not be much of problem). note: the emitter is the blueish component, the receptor (phototransistor) is black here. check with your phone camera if you see the ir light if you have doubt (dont put too much current on the component) 100100k voltage divider note that this is the basic design of proximity sensor! put the led/phototransistor at degrees and put the fingertip in the middle (avoid having the ir light going directly on the sensor: it must diffuse through your finger). hall sensor!ir lednot true!but... dont see phototransistor in your old kit!!??please check now... (or use the grove one!) if not, lets try to use the ldr with green led, and hope that the volume of the blood is enough to absorb enough green light... (this is hacking!) lets try the ldr and green led anyway... [] sampling and checking on the serial plotter the raw data we can see the beats, but they dont have enough amplitude and can be buried in the noisealso, as we change the pressure on the emitter/sensor, the signal goes up or down as whole (dc component), so we cannot just threshold to get the pics...we need to pre-process the signal! we need to process the signal: () smoothing the signal (eliminate the noise); () filtering put low frequency variations (high pass filter); and () detect the pulses. bpm results from averaging the pulse intervals (again, this is smoothing of pre-processed signal). all this is done digitally, aftersampling, hence digital signal processing. .) exponential smoothing(val= .*val+ .* newval) <---we did beforehow to extract the beats/minute from this curve? ) filtering noise .) moving average does not takes into account allthe samples up to the last one but only handful of them, so it can better account for the characteristics of the recent signal, or correct for lag with respect to the input. better implementation of this is using circular buffer (or ring buffer). new value:buffer[index] oldest value:buffer[index+] efficient implementation of the running average: the ring buffer .. ring buffers will be very useful each time you need to do some dsp operations.. we will see right away one example when calculating peaks ) eliminating the dc component (or offset): to obtain the dc component, we can simply smooth the signal lot more, for instance using larger sliding window, or the exponential smoothing.then extract that value to the previously smoothed curve.) peak detection?there are many advanced mathematical ways to detect peaks (used from nuclear physics to finance analysis, to biosensing). we will just design an intuitive one: measuring how much the signal change in the sliding window, and if the variation goes over certain threshold, then we are in peak. of course, we need to stop detecting it, until this variance gets low enough... interestingly, ) and ) can be combined in just few lines!compute the meanin sliding windowcompute the the variancein the sliding window (for that one needs the mean)=> if the signal goes beyond the mean + variance then we are in the presence of peak... note: single threshold comparison is noisy... enters the smith trigger(double threshold) single threshold will be affected by the smallest noise!! simple example: night lights (switch on/off). using double threshold with separation larger than the noise will solve this (histeresis). another example: use potentiometer to define discrete states (.eas rotary encoder)... this simple strategy will be very useful for you in the future (*)(*) check hard disk drive hack to create turntable ) lie detector (galvanic skin response) the same dsp techniques introduced can be applied here to detect the instants of arousal.infact, many biosensing data can be obtained using these basic dsp techniques. more advanced analysis (in particular for eeg) would require things like fourier transform, time stretching.. and of course machine learning. mq- alcohol sensor ... from simple modules to kits and serious projects conclusionwith the excuse of teaching you about biosensors, introduced several basic concepts of digital signal processing. these code snippets will be extremely useful in your work, believe me. measuring averages, variance (both using exponential smoothing or running averages) is ubiquitous problem in physical computing;detecting eventssuch as peaks is very common problem as you can imagine;using double threshold is an ingenious method to avoid oscillations around the threshold (the method is complementary to the debouncing but its not the same, as in the last one the signal is not noisy but oscillates between and 5v. ive seen it used for properly detecting touch in musical instrument ( helped my friend implementing threshold smith trigger); word about displays -segment displaysa seven segment display show digits or letters. its just bunch of leds in the shape of segments. you can control each digit with digital output pins (and use an array to store the patterns for each number/letter. this is tedious though, and you will run out of pins very quickly. there are ics that will do the work for you. these communicate with the arduino using serial interface (uart or spi, etc). and as always, good libraries exist to simplify your control. serial display (using software serial on the arduinoside. note that the display module only contain the rx pin). this 8x8 led matrix display uses segment display controller max7219 talking to the arduino using the serial protocol spi. the matrices are daisy chainable. the ledcontrollibrary (check examples) hides all the complexity for you. addressing single pixel or even showing characters is very simple (next slide).( max7219 pins (for instance)#define din_pin4 #define cs_pin3 #define clk_pin2 // (cs pin is also "load" in the max72xx) 5v gnd 36simple led matrices example max7219 & the arduino library ledcontrol. we want to address pixels independently. this can be done with this simple call: matrixled.setled( , , , low/high); matrix (we can daisy chain many max29xx)led (,) state of the led rgb led strips/rings/etc the ws2812is tiny surface mounted component containing three colorleds(, and ) and some electronic inside to drive them by special serial protocol on only one wire. interestingly, they can be controlled individually, or daisy chained into long strings or any other form factor. adafruit neopixellibrary is very complete and versatile; specialized versions exist to control led matrices, led rings, etc. ws2812 attention: when you use many many leds, you need to use an external power supply. alphanumeric pixelated, tft (active matrix) displays...lcd (liquid crystal) ...many are also touchscreens arduino does not have enough memory to store images. it is possible to add an sd reader and access the images from there. also, some display modules come with that sd on the opposite side. note: how to store images? of course, interactive graphics can be generated without the need of storing graphics on an sd card.the library from adafruit gfx-graphics is very complete. it contains: graphic primitives (lines, circles, squares, etc)functions to rotate, translate and resize methods to access images or fonts on an sd card -ink displays lcd displays... arduino and the cloud bluetooth, wifi, html server, iot... note: deadline proposal documentation!next week:
sm3808art & sciencelecturer: dr. alvaro cassinellilecture , session : introduction science= objectivismart = subjectivism ... is that true? maybeits all about hats! there may be legitimate need to situate oneself though making something or looking at something. period. ideas, inventions, artworks come from original observationplay (add noise) guided by knowledge and experiencei will teach you not to fear not knowing what you dopractice ontological disbeliefis it science?is it useful?what is that? is it art? wrong questions! is it scientific tool?and why these questions?what is that?! is it art? wheel? its all about the process of creative inquire and point of viewi cannot see reason to definea creative work in the making ! ... as long as you take it seriously leodrone, . cassinelli [] cybernetic rattenkonig[] . cassinelli & . cassinelliserious can be funny! serious refers to the process of inquire and creation. serious artwork makes anyone reflects and become aware of the illusion of meaning.it is inquisitive, subverting like scientific discovery. it is seriousconformal crystals, phyllotaxis, black holes, temporal reversal, chaos, auto organization... an example from my scientific research it is... hypnotic, beautiful? learning objectives of this courseobjectivesunderstand the core process of creative thinking (common to arts and sciences)practice permanentawareness in order to appreciate the infinite opportunities (random seeds) that feed imagination: constant observation, minute documentation and representation of seemingly mundane phenomena (ex: light reflections, regular patterns in nature, sources of background sound, etc)practice introspective awareness (ones own mental processes), informed by psychophysics, cognitive sciences, etc. understand the balance of chaos and order in the creative process (noise and filter). practice repetition(ex: drawing the same thing everyday) alternatively exerting more control or introducing more chaos in the process.serendipity: transform and seize the opportunities offered by apparent limitations or glitches in perceptual mechanisms as well as in the tools for expression. createyour own tools or techniques to amplify chaos or on the contrary, exert more control (see next slide). how:exposure to artistic and scientific works at the intersection of art & science, highlighting the centrality of the process over the resultsin the scientific & artistic enquires. maintain an analog notebookto observe and document interesting things out there, write down ideas and dreams, or other random things (doodles done when talking on the phone, etc). use all the time. document your process. completion of one artwork (digital or not) in any form or technique, but accompanied by conscientious documentation, informed by the things you learned about the creative forces at play (ex: chaos, order, perception). word about me horaciocassinelli/ pelleteusesurverre, grand palais, lille, ... and artist uses science khronos projector []-sculpting space-time[grand prize art / japan media art festival] create your own tools of expressionby knowing about light... laserinne []-interactive games on the sky slope scorelight[]-synesthetic musical instrument[excellence prize jmaf]smart laser scanner [~]-hci& everywhere display laser sensing display []-artificial fluorescence invoked computing ,. cassinelli [] jury grand prize laval virtual what is this? torobots [~]-generative garden, robotics, ai ratchairs[]-biologically inspired robot locomotion are these images from art or science? super-kamiokandeneutrino detectorkinetic drawing sculpture | karina smigla-bobinski ibm quantum computertime machine clock... ? ? stephen knapp art science (lithium niobate -switches) unknown -for while... lam qua & peter parker-artist, physicianandreas vesalius & jan steven van calcar-physician and artistself-portrait, , francis bacon ernst haeckel-scientistadolf wolfli-artist ? ernesto neto, leviathan thot, antoni gaudi, structural models for la sagrada familia ? real: experimental inertial fusion reactor real: large hadron collider, cern cargo cult: fascinating cultural appropriation? these were some examples of what mean by shifting perspectives & see anew example exercise (you will be given explicit exercises, but encouraged to invent your own):document on your notebook all sort of objects interesting from their aesthetics, not their function artists and scientists notebooks(fieldnotes, sketches, research diaries, etc) leonardo da vinci isaac newton sol lewitt albert einstein henri poincare which public? mathematicians? ...poets? marie curie(the notebook is still radioactive!) think[sketch]case must be that one generation then should be as many living as now. to do this & to have many species in same genus (as is) requires extinction. thus between & immense gap of relation. & the finest gradation, & rather greater distinction. thus genera would be formed. bearing relationdarwins tree of life sketch frida kahlo thomas edison paul klee ...isaac newton guillermo del toro (mexican film director) labanotation (rudolf laban ) ...early multimedia notebooks (or mixed media artworks?...) faichildpatent notebooks why an analog notebook? the notebook is the artworknotebooks, alvaro cassinelli monday :-::-:-lecture17:-:-break17:-:-demonstration/lecture18:-:-in class exercisethursday : ::-:-presentation exercises and discussion13:-:-break13:-:-tutorial/studio/guest lecturestructure of classesroom m6042 assessmentpart . notebook (%) your art/science notebook is the majority of your assessment. it documents the process of learning and discoveryyou have gone through during the course. it can include course notes, ideas, inspirations, drawings. every week you will be given small exercises based on the lectures and demonstrations which must be documented in your notebook. these will take the form of sketches, observations, images or experiments. these will be presented every week, but the deadline for each exercise is cumulative and ongoing as part of the mark for your notebook. the most important thing is that you present something whether it is from the earlier or the previous weeks sessions.part . artwork (%) final artwork must be produced in any media, whether presented online, drawing, program or piece of hardware you have created which draws from the ideas documented in your notebook. part . in-class participation, discussions and presentations (%) your participation in discussions and presentations are also an important part of your final mark. you are encouraged to bring about interesting topics, movies, readings, etc. exampleofastudentnotebookinsm3808(-)(moupeijing) key deadlinesweek 2notebook exercises will be presented on an ongoing basisfrom week two on thursdayweek 10project proposal presentation and discussion in classweek 12submit proposal documentweek 13final artwork submission and final presentation. submit notebook exercise : appropiatingthe aestheticsof equations cover one or more pages with equations inspiredby real mathematical notation not need to be real one. just play with the symbols and fake beautiful, mathematical-looking drawing... impressions, aesthetics ... scientists do play that game too garret lisi: surfer and theoretical physicist xu bing, new english calligraphy, liam gillick, the logical basis, examples of what to play with (graphs, geometry, symbols, numbers...) terence chi-shen tao: one of the best if not the best mathematicians of our time! by the way... there are jobs out there! including science popularization, scientific visualization, etc luigi serafini, codex seraphinianus, lid of the tomb of kinichjanaabpakali (mayan king, vii ad) gemini spacecraft (~) we will show you how these drawings hide another level of beauty / structure. we will play with processing and grapher, an application on osx to draw graphs. now tweaking numbers and symbols actually generateimages. senseless drawing bot(so kannoand takahiro yamaguchi, - robot uses chaotic mechanical system (double pendulum) to generate random graffiti. cymatics: dancing oobleckexample of simple inspiring experiments & demos coandaeffect note: many very interesting youtubescience channels out there ideas: repetition in art and repetitive exercises[more later] andy warhol example of my daily exercises...
what kinds of pattern do you see? . perception: gestalt principle gestalt perception theory was originated from german psychology studies to understand how human see things in simplfied way. they can be classified in the following principles: . law of simplicity/ pragnaz the overall principle can be explained with the simplfying purpose, simply to digest and absorb the image in the fastest way. therefore, we observe two squares (right diagrams) in the rst sight no matter how many little squares are inside. . law of proximity in seeing objects with different properties, like sizing. we could classify them by their distance to each other. that means the grouping is determined by the location and placement. . law of similarity for objects with different shape but share similar property or appearance, they would be grouped together visually to save time in understanding one by one. . law of continuity when the object has strong tendency to nish its shape, the un nished (or covered) area would be seen in finished way. our vision help creating the missing part and understand the overall structure. supplementaries figure-ground theory the theory demonstrates the rst instant distinction between objects and background. for application, gure doesn' only mean the real object in daily life but also the perception of background. the signi cance lies on how we distinuish the "objects" which stand out from their surroundings and their relations for the overall composition. ground theory the theory demonstrates our understanding for the object' location. since we seldom see things without looking at their background at the same time, the absence of ground (or background) would lead to confusion of the venue and sometimes the identity of the object. in the extention of ground theory, we used to look at ground-attached objects. without being graphical representation . graphical representation and questions of perception- gestalt theory/ . intuitive intelligence - visual/ spatial integllige nces/ .types of graphical representation: drawing, sketch, diagram, photograph, graph, etc two complex rectangles two simple rectangles mixed with different scaled objects invisible grouping mixed with different scales and forms appearance with similar character would be grouped the pattern with disruption perceived image figure-ground theory the theory demonstrates the rst instant distinction between objects and background. figure-ground theory the theory demonstrates the first instant distinction between objects and background. figure-ground theory the theory figure-ground theory the theory demonstrates the first instant distinction between objects and background. figure-ground theory the theory figure-ground theory the theory demonstrates the first instant distinction between objects and option : option :attached to the ground. we doubted the existence in real world. therefore, we would tend to look at objects with ground attachement. phenomena coffee vortex grouping is the phenomena (or result) of natural reaction, like chemical reaction. they group for better cohesion. modularity the copy or reproduction of any individual is possible. although we can nd uniqueness in depth, the overall property and appearance would be considered the same. that marks the gestalt principle of similarity (not the same). collage in some daily grahic assortment, we used to make collage with different images like playing jigsaw puzzle. such collage is the result of grouping, we group similar and related images nearby so that the overall pattern (image) would look nice in terms of their size, color, shape or meanings sometimes. partial scanning even the objects are in their intact and complete shape, like the billiard balls we target, they are xed in place at the begining. however, when we target one or few object only, we will exclude the redundant ones so that our vision would be focused to few objects only. dynamic in the object some objects are directional and naturally can serve the visual direction. like lines and arrow that we used in signage board, even though the objects is static, they would carry out some stroboscobic movement as if they move by themsleves. for example, letter "" has pointing property that share similar property with arrow sign. point on the curve line also portray the point on path, which illusionize our vision to see the point following the path. aa rst sight.rotating? curve in the object most products or graphic design tend to use curve instead of right-angled image because of the smoother edges provided. it obviously raises an issue whether we really like curve or we just get used to seeing curve; or right-angled things are just too dominant and make us feel bored? from the perception' perspective, curve contains the continuity property which allows our eyesight to follow the curve so that curve is rather instable and not xed in one place as rectangle or square. therefore, some -dimensional designs like architecture is also fascinated by the curve or ball-like design to create the dynamics. partial presentation the manipulation of continuity or self-recovery property can generate better design, especially for insuf cient space or avoidance of boring and tedious details. also, the missing or covered parts are also speculative for viewer to guess and contemplate. it increases the attention and focus of the object itself. cross-out the similar principle to partial presentation, which increase the interest of the object due to the "forbidden", "censored" or "banned" objects. . spatial and visual intelligence in , gardner howard suggested the eight principles of multiple intelligences, which were under two categories of logically testable and non-logically testable respectively. mechanism all things we perceive has to involve with few basic steps, they are: ) observation; ) imagining; & ) understanding. if we want to see things but not to glimpse only, we need to imagine and understand the purpose of the image. they are not necessary be the 2d-projection or graphics but can be real 3d object in our surroundings as our built environment. media around us like magazine or newspaper, they use graphics to tell stories and report the incidents happened every day. we get used to digest the image rst before digging into the content of text. feel and think the reason why people would be touched by the artwork or photograph in an exhibition is the content and the message carried out which evoke their emotin. that' the power of the image. more than graphic no matter the - or - graphics, they can provide the environmental context around us. like the tsunami sign or the real picture of the disaster. the ush of water indicates the danger and risk that posed upon us. such immediate perception of danger are also the mechanism of graphic digestion with the perceiveable image. understanding as way-finding the way-finding system is embraced in our (built) environment. we feel the levelling of the slope in san francisco. we feel the mystery in the counrtryside that is full of trees. in such clustered and fully-occupied city, way- nding system apart from signage is essential for one to nd the route out in the fastest way. therefore, we can consider spatial/ visual musical bodily kinesthetic intrapersonal naturalistlinguistic logical/ mathematicalnon- logically testable int. (intuitive) logically testable int. (rational) observation imagining understanding1. . . it is beautiful painting! she is smiling at me! our environment as large graphic map. we has to understand the relations first so that we could find the way out without too much aids. . types of graphic representation there are numerous ways to use graphics to represent an idea. photography for direct portray, graphs for complex data, map for navigation of mass information, sketch for developing concepts, diagram for simplified idea and chart for more trends and statistics, etc. photo is used to show the real siutaion directly. although the photo nowadays can be fake with the advancing computer technology and software programme. the ultimate goal of photo is to simulate or portray the reality. they contains high amount of details just as the real object, in minimized format. ii graph is used to represent the distribution of data, mostly the numerical ones that cannot be and are too clumsy to be shown one by one. the graph change the asbstct data to more visualized format to make the content more understandable. the purpose is similar to chart but in different format. iii map is the navigation of real space (or virtual space) for an envionment. because it houses lot of information like spots, stoppage, paths and road networks, it is the simplifed formate of the real situation. it consists of diagrams, legend , to help viewers to understand the compelx data inferred. iv sketch is used to represent the abstract idea without carrying too much details (sometimes with annotation to communicate with the third parties). they are the prototypes for the development; and the finalized products always share similiarity with the orignial sketch. digrams is composed of more than one symbols to form system. for example, the people icon plus the arrow icon represent that people are allowed to go in one direction or two. if they only exist withtout working with other similar types, it cannot form network; they can only serve as logo or icon, but not diagrams (usually embrace the system meaning, mostly in engineering diagrams) chart is mostly composed by bar or histogram. they can be further transformed to graph or vice versa. photo map sketchdiagram chartgraphs light (way nding)
